
 
Curwen was commissioned by a conference of Sunday school teachers in 1841 to find and promote a way of teaching music for Sunday school singing. He took elements of the Norwich Sol-fa and other techniques later adding hand signals. It was intended that his method could teach singing initially from the Sol-fa and then a transition to staff notation.
 
**DOWNLOAD • [https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SJD](https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SJD)**


 
In 1872, Curwen changed his former course of using the Sol-fa system as an aid to sight reading, when that edition of his *Standard Course of Lessons* excluded the staff and relied solely on Tonic Sol-fa.
 
In 1879 the Tonic Sol-Fa College was opened. Curwen also began publishing, and brought out a periodical called the *Tonic Sol-fa Reporter and Magazine of Vocal Music for the People*, and in his later life was occupied in directing the spreading organisation of his system. The Sol-fa system was widely adopted for use in education, as an easily teachable method in the reading of music at sight, but its more ambitious aims for providing a superior method of musical notation have not been generally adopted.
 
When John Windet printed the 1594 edition of the *Sternhold and Hopkins Psalter*, he added the initials of the six syllables of Guido (*U, R, M, F, S, L*) underneath the note. Windet explained, "...I have caused a new print of note to be made with letter to be joined to every note: whereby thou mayest know how to call every note by his right name, so that with a very little diligence thou mayest more easilie by the viewing of these letters, come to the knowledge of perfect solfeying..." Rousseau, Curwen and others would have been aware of this popular psalter.
 
B. C. Unseld and Theodore F. Seward, with Biglow and Main publishers, imported Curwen's *tonic sol-fa* to the United States, though the method was never widely received. Before this, the 9th edition of the *Bay Psalm Book* (Boston, USA) had appeared with the initials of four-note syllables (*fa, sol, la, me*) underneath the staff. Reverend John Tufts, in his *An Introduction to the Singing of Psalm Tunes in a Plaine & Easy Method*, moved the initials of the four-note syllables onto the staff in place of "regular notes", and indicated rhythm by punctuation marks to the right of the letters. These may be considered American forerunners of Curwen's system, though he may not have been aware of them. Tufts' *Introduction* was popular, going through several editions. Nevertheless, his work probably did more to pave the way for shape notes. When Unseld and Steward introduced tonic sol-fa in the late 1800s, it was considered "something new".
 
Solmization that represents the functions of pitches (such as tonic sol-fa) is called "functional" solmization. All musicians that use functional solmization use "do" to represent the tonic (also known as the "keynote") in the major mode. However, approaches to the minor mode fall into two camps. Some musicians use "do" to represent the tonic in minor (a parallel approach), whereas others prefer to label the tonic in minor as "la" (a relative approach) Both systems have their advantages: The former system more directly represents the scale-degree functions of the pitches in a key; the latter more directly represents the intervals between pitches in any given key signature.
 
In Curwen's system, the notes of the major scale (of any key) are notated with the single letters d, r, m, f, s, l, and t when in the octave of middle C (or C4). This means, no extra notation will be added to any of the notes when do is anywhere between C4 - B4. Any notes in the octave(s) above will have a superscript, starting with 1 for the first octave above, 2 for the second, so on and so forth, if it were ever necessary. The same goes for the octave(s) below, except it will be notated with a subscript instead. To reference these when talking about them, in the case of do, do1 would be called "one-do", and do1 is called "do-one".[2] Chromatic alterations are marked by the following vowel, "e" for sharp (pronounced "ee") and "a" for flat (pronounced "aw").[3] Thus, the ascending and descending chromatic scale is notated:
 
Such chromatic notes appear only as ornaments or as preparation for a modulation; once the music has modulated, then the names for the new key are used. The modulation itself is marked by superscript of the old note name preceding its new name; for example, in modulation to the dominant, the new tonic is notated as sd. The music then proceeds in the new key until another modulation is notated.
 
Dynamic symbols are used the same as in the staff notation more commonly seen.[*clarification needed*][*citation needed*] A horizontal line under a single letter means that note is to be sung legato, or smooth.[*citation needed*] A horizontal line spanning under multiple letters signifies a slur, connecting the letters together.[2] In Curwen's Tonic sol-fa, time signatures are not used, so various forms of notation are used to divide up measures into beats and beats smaller.[2] Vertical bar lines are used to separate measures, like in the more commonly seen staff notation.[2] A double bar line at the end also signifies the end.[2] Colons (:) are then used to separate the beats:[2]

Dashes in place of a letter means to hold out the note until either the next note appears, a rest appears, or the end of the piece comes, whichever may come first.[2] Rests are just notated with a blank space; no letter, no dash:[2]
 
There are two current ways of applying solfge: 1) fixed do, where the syllables are always tied to specific pitches (e.g., "do" is always "C-natural") and 2) movable do, where the syllables are assigned to scale degrees, with "do" always the first degree of the major scale.
 
The generic term "solmization", referring to any system of denoting pitches of a musical scale by syllables, including those used in India and Japan as well as solfge, comes from French solmisation, from the Latin solfge syllables *sol* and *mi*.[4]
 
In eleventh-century Italy, the music theorist Guido of Arezzo invented a notational system that named the six notes of the hexachord after the first syllable of each line of the Latin hymn "Ut queant laxis", the "Hymn to St. John the Baptist", yielding *ut, re, mi, fa, sol, la*.[6][7] Each successive line of this hymn begins on the next scale degree, so each note's name was the syllable sung at that pitch in this hymn.
 
"Ut" was changed in the 1600s in Italy to the open syllable Do.[7] Guido's system had only six notes, but "si" was added later as the seventh note of the diatonic scale. In Anglophone countries, "si" was changed to "ti" by Sarah Glover in the nineteenth century so that every syllable might begin with a different letter. "Ti" is used in tonic sol-fa (and in the famed American show tune "Do-Re-Mi").
 
Some authors speculate that the solfge syllables (*do, re, mi, fa, sol, la, ti*) might have been influenced by the syllables of the Arabic solmization system called درر مفصّلات *Durar Mufaṣṣalāt* ("Detailed Pearls") (*dāl, rā', mīm, fā', ṣād, lām, tā'*). This mixed-origin theory was brought forward by scholars as early as the XVII and XVIII century, in the works of Francisci a Mesgnien Meninski and Jean-Benjamin de La Borde.[8][9][10][11] Modern scholars are mostly skeptical.[12]
 
In the Elizabethan era, England and its related territories used only four of the syllables: mi, fa, sol, and la. "Mi" stood for modern ti or si, "fa" for modern do or ut, "sol" for modern re, and "la" for modern mi. Then, fa, sol and la would be repeated to also stand for their modern counterparts, resulting in the scale being "fa, sol, la, fa, sol, la, mi, fa". The use of "fa", "sol" and "la" for two positions in the scale is a leftover from the Guidonian system of so-called "mutations" (i.e. changes of hexachord on a note, see Guidonian hand). This system was largely eliminated by the 19th century, but is still used in some shape note systems, which give each of the four syllables "fa", "sol", "la", and "mi" a different shape.
 
In *Movable do*[13] or *tonic sol-fa*, each syllable corresponds to a scale degree; for example, if the music changes into a higher key, each syllable moves to a correspondingly higher note. This is analogous to the Guidonian practice of giving each degree of the hexachord a solfge name, and is mostly used in Germanic countries, Commonwealth countries, and the United States.
 
One particularly important variant of movable do, but differing in some respects from the system described below, was invented in the nineteenth century by Sarah Ann Glover, and is known as tonic sol-fa.
 
The pedagogical advantage of the movable-Do system is its ability to assist in the theoretical understanding of music; because a tonic is established and then sung in comparison to, the student infers melodic and chordal implications through their singing.
 
Movable do is frequently employed in Australia, China, Japan (with 5th being so, and 7th being si), Ireland, the United Kingdom, the United States, Hong Kong, and English-speaking Canada. The movable do system is a fundamental element of the Kodly method used primarily in Hungary, but with a dedicated following worldwide. In the movable do system, each solfge syllable corresponds not to a pitch, but to a scale degree: The first degree of a major scale is always sung as "do", the second as "re", etc. (For minor keys, see below.) In movable do, a given tune is therefore always sol-faed on the same syllables, no matter what key it is in.
 
The solfge syllables used for movable do differ slightly from those used for fixed do, because the English variant of the basic syllables ("ti" instead of "si") is usually used, and chromatically altered syllables are usually included as well.
 
If, at a certain point, the key of a piece modulates, then it is necessary to change th