The PE and Rec self-defense instructors are committed to teaching empowerment-based self-defense to everyone. We offer a variety of workshops and classes to help our community feel prepared, aware, and confident. Workshops are prioritized for University of Oregon student groups; we will consider other UO campus community requests as capacity allows.
 
In order to create a safer and productive space for all, and due to the sensitive nature of Empowerment Self-Defense Workshops, we highly recommend that attendance NOT be made mandatory for participants. For groups or clubs that require attendance for their members (e.g., for their organization's monthly meeting), workshop instructors reserve the right, at their discretion, to ask attendees to step out for a break or leave the workshop. Attendees who cause any kind of disruption (e.g., side conversations, inappropriate comments, or obvious inattention) will be asked to leave the workshop.
 
**Download File ⇔ [https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SKq](https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SKq)**


 
Cost of attendance is the estimated cost to attend the UO for the academic year. The Office of Student Financial Aid and Scholarships provides estimates for cost of attendance information that goes beyond tuition and fees, and includes: living expenses (housing and food), books/supplies/equipment, transportation, and miscellaneous personal expenses.
 
Taught by certified instructors, this comprehensive course begins with awareness education, prevention, risk reduction and risk avoidance, and progresses to the basics of hands-on defense training. Although students will learn defense strategies, this is not a martial arts program. Courses are open individuals in Ohio age 14 and older.
 
The course begins with awareness, prevention, risk reduction and risk avoidance, while progressing to the basics of hands-on defense training. This course is physically and psychologically demanding. The training that we offer includes the use of pads and padded suits, which allow the students to experience, practice and learn what it is like to strike the aggressor in a realistic situation.
 
Please remember that this is an interactive self-defense course. Students may wear loose-fitting clothing, workout clothing, or street clothes. Please do not wear open-toed shoes or heels. Athletic shoes are required.
 
The Michael Blankenship Police Memorial Fund was created to receive gifts to the university in memory of university Police Officer Michael Blankenship who was killed in the line of duty. The funds are designated for campus crime prevention initiatives and programs. Donations are tax deductible.

We often receive requests for training off-campus and within the City of Columbus. Unfortunately, our team is unable to accommodate these requests, and the service we provide is limited to Ohio State's Columbus campus.
 
Valuable self-defense tools can be taught in short or longer amounts of time. Programs can and should be at varying lengths to reach the broadest population of women and girls in recognition that women and girls have varying resources and responsibilities but all need access to high quality self-defense training.
 
Are you looking for one more credit to fill your schedule? Look no further than the Self-Defense class with instructor Alvin Sablan. This class is open to all Boise State students to teach them basic self-defense techniques.
 
Since beginning the course in 2018, Sablan has enjoyed meeting new students and sharing his understanding of the art of self-defense. By helping students become proficient in self-defense they can live with confidence and the ability to save their own lives, or the lives of others through what they have learned.
 
**The site is secure.** 
 The **https://** ensures that you are connecting to the official website and that any information you provide is encrypted and transmitted securely.
 
Global research about empowerment self-defense (ESD)-a sexual assault resistance intervention recommended as a component of a comprehensive sexual assault prevention strategy-continues to emerge, with studies reporting positive effects, including reduced risk of sexual assault victimization. Researchers have suggested ESD may produce additional positive public health outcomes beyond the prevention of sexual violence, but more research is needed to understand the benefits associated with ESD training. However, to conduct high-quality research, scholars have suggested a need for improved measurement tools. To better understand these measurement gaps, the purpose of this study was to identify and review measures used in ESD outcome studies; and in doing so, to determine the range of outcomes previously measured in quantitative studies. Within the 23 articles meeting study inclusion criteria, there were 57 unique scales that measured a range of variables. These 57 measures were grouped into nine construct categories: assault characteristics (*n* = 1); attitudes and beliefs (*n* = 6); behavior and behavioral intentions (*n* = 12); fear (*n* = 4); knowledge (*n* = 3); mental health (*n* = 8); any past unwanted sexual experiences (*n* = 7); perception of risk and vulnerability (*n* = 5); and self-efficacy (*n* = 11). Except for mental health, most scales were developed in the Global North using college student populations, so measures for diverse populations (e.g., diverse in age, culture, ethnicity, geographical origin) are critically needed. Future research should focus on identifying and/or developing standardized tools that measure the full constellation of targeted outcomes. Evaluation of the methodological quality of studies assessing psychometric performance of the tools should also be prioritized.
 
A couple months ago, as I was biking home around midnight from a friend's house, a man stepped out from between two cars about 50 feet ahead of me. Approaching with arms outstretched, he shouted sexually violent plans for our presumed night together. This is it , I thought to myself, you've been too lucky in life so far. I tried to recall any self-defense lessons I learned in high school or tips from chain emails forwarded by my mom during my freshman year of college. I swerved to avoid him, and pedaled away, adrenaline pumping. He chased me for two blocks, maybe more. I didn't look back to check.
 
"You need to come. It made me feel so empowered, and that's exactly what you need right now," she told me while simulating gouging my eyes out in yet another Krav Maga demo. I signed up for a free three-day trial, starting with an introductory co-ed class the following week.
 
The session was led by a smiling middle-aged guy I'll call Sammy. He had an average build and a faux-nurturing attitude that came off like a man trying to imitate something he had seen on TV. He blasted 50 Cent's "In Da Club" as we practiced our fighting stance and threw warmup punches at invisible assailants. "Regulate that breathing! Exhale loudly! I wanna hear you scream!" Sammy yelled like a giddy high school choir director. "Aim for soft tissue! Shove his nose into his skull!"
 
I left my first session feeling a sense of empowerment that was like a placebo effect: The most exciting thing about self-defense class was that I was taking a self-defense class. It was hard to even pretend this stuff was useful when it was clear I was being treated as inferior in this controlled environment. I'm sure Sammy knew a lot about the mechanics and physics of violent encounters, but I didn't know if he knew what it felt like to be confronted by someone bigger and stronger than him.
 
Experts I've spoken with since then say I'm not the only woman who has had these thoughts during a male-dominated self-defense course. According to Leanne Brecklin, an associate professor of criminal justice at the University of Illinois, while self-defense training can help women who have been attacked, it's far more helpful for them to enroll in classes designed just for women.
 
Martha Thompson, the director of the women's self-defense organization IMPACT Chicago, told me that self-defense courses aren't just about learning how to break holds and incapacitate attackers, but about the theoretical underpinnings behind the class. "What is the instructor's understanding of violence in the world?" she asked rhetorically. "Is there a deep understanding of gender-based violence and how it intersects with other societal issues?
 
"There's a concept called benevolent sexism," explained Martha McCaughey, a professor of sociology at Appalachian State University and the author of Real Knockouts: The Physical Feminism of Women's Self-Defense. "It's not as blatant as, 'Women are inferior.' Instead, it's more like, 'Let me help you, little lady. Let me give you extra attention in this self-defense class.' It's protective and condescending where people keep positioning women as being unable to do anything. It's not obvious to a lot of guys and it's this thing that nobody seems to notice, but it's there. It's probably the most common form of sexism in 2015."
 
For my last free Krav Maga class, I went to a women-only course. There was only one other student in the class, an extremely curt woman named Susan. ("Looks like you'll be working together," the instructor joked. "Do I have a choice?" Sue replied.) But at least Sue was serious, and put all of her strength into each move as we practiced hammer punches and knee kicks to the groin. It felt more real, and I reciprocated in kind. The instructor taught us to how gouge our attacker's eyes out, and how to scratch and collect DNA samples to identify them after escaping. While this class was definitely better, it was frustrating that there weren't more women there.
 
So I took the experts' advice and attended an introductory class with Impact Bay Area, a nonprofit that provides empowerment self-defense through a feminist lens. All classes are led b