
 
***Star Trek*** is an American science fiction media franchise created by Gene Roddenberry, which began with the eponymous 1960s television series and became a worldwide pop-culture phenomenon. Since its creation, the franchise has expanded into various films, television series, video games, novels, and comic books, and it has become one of the most recognizable and highest-grossing media franchises of all time.[1][2][3]
 
The franchise began with *Star Trek: The Original Series*, which debuted in the US on September 8, 1966, and aired for three seasons on NBC. It was first broadcast on September 6, 1966, on Canada's CTV network.[4] The series followed the voyages of the crew of the starship USS *Enterprise*, a space exploration vessel built by the United Federation of Planets in the 23rd century, on a mission "to explore strange new worlds, to seek out new life and new civilizations, to boldly go where no man has gone before". In creating *Star Trek*, Roddenberry was inspired by C. S. Forester's Horatio Hornblower series of novels, Jonathan Swift's 1726 novel *Gulliver's Travels*, the 1956 film *Forbidden Planet*, and television westerns such as *Wagon Train*.
 
**Download File === [https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SyX](https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SyX)**


 
*Star Trek* is noted for its cultural influence beyond works of science fiction.[6] The franchise is also notable for its progressive civil-rights stances.[7] *The Original Series* included one of the first multiracial casts on US television.
 
Most *Star Trek* stories depict the adventures of humans and aliens who serve in Starfleet, the space-borne humanitarian and peacekeeping armada of the United Federation of Planets. The protagonists have altruistic values, and must apply these ideals to difficult dilemmas.
 
Roddenberry intended the show to have a progressive political agenda reflective of the emerging counter-culture of the youth movement, though he was not fully forthcoming to the networks about this. He wanted *Star Trek* to show what humanity might develop into, if it would learn from the lessons of the past, most specifically by ending violence. An extreme example is the alien species known as the Vulcans, who had a violent past but learned to control their emotions. Roddenberry also gave *Star Trek* an anti-war message and depicted the United Federation of Planets as an ideal, optimistic version of the United Nations.[15] His efforts were opposed by the network because of concerns over marketability, e.g., they opposed Roddenberry's insistence that *Enterprise* have a racially diverse crew.[16]
 
In early 1964, Roddenberry presented a brief treatment for a television series to Desilu Productions, calling it "a *Wagon Train* to the stars".[17] Desilu studio head Lucille Ball was instrumental in approving production of the series.[18] The studio worked with Roddenberry to develop the treatment into a script, which was then pitched to NBC.[19]
 
NBC paid to make a pilot, "The Cage", starring Jeffrey Hunter as *Enterprise* Captain Christopher Pike. NBC rejected "The Cage", but the executives were still impressed with the concept, and made the unusual decision to commission a second pilot: "Where No Man Has Gone Before".[19]
 
While the show initially enjoyed high ratings, the average rating of the show at the end of its first season dropped to 52nd out of 94 programs. Unhappy with the show's ratings, NBC threatened to cancel the show during its second season.[20] The show's fan base, led by Bjo Trimble, conducted an unprecedented letter-writing campaign, petitioning the network to keep the show on the air.[20][21] NBC renewed the show, but moved it from primetime to the "Friday night death slot", and substantially reduced its budget.[22] In protest, Roddenberry resigned as producer and reduced his direct involvement in *Star Trek*, which led to Fred Freiberger becoming producer for the show's third and final season.[b] Despite another letter-writing campaign, NBC canceled the series after three seasons and 79 episodes.[19]
 
After the original series was canceled, Desilu, which by then had been renamed Paramount Television, licensed the broadcast syndication rights to help recoup the production losses. Reruns began in late 1969, and by the late 1970s the series aired in over 150 domestic and 60 international markets.[*citation needed*] This helped *Star Trek* develop a cult following among Trekkies greater than during its original run;[23] by 1976, the cast described *Star Trek* as "the most popular series in the world".[24]

Following the success of the science fiction movies *Star Wars* and *Close Encounters of the Third Kind*, Paramount adapted the planned pilot episode of *Phase II* into the feature film *Star Trek: The Motion Picture*. The film opened in North America on December 7, 1979, with mixed reviews from critics. The film earned $139 million worldwide, below expectations but enough for Paramount to create a sequel. The studio forced Roddenberry to relinquish creative control of future sequels.[29]
 
The success of the sequel, *Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan*, reversed the fortunes of the franchise. While the sequel grossed less than the first movie, *The Wrath of Khan*'s lower production costs made it net more profit. Paramount produced six *Star Trek* feature films between 1979 and 1991, each featuring the *Original Series* cast in their original roles.[30]
 
In 1987, Paramount responded to the popularity of *Star Trek* feature films by bringing the franchise back to television with *Star Trek: The Next Generation*. Paramount chose to distribute the new series as a first-run syndication show rather than a network program.[10] The series was set a century after the original, following the adventures of a new starship *Enterprise* with a new crew.[31]
 
After *Voyager* ended, UPN produced *Enterprise*, a prequel series. *Enterprise* did not enjoy the high ratings of its predecessors and UPN threatened to cancel it after the series' third season. Fans launched a campaign reminiscent of the one that saved the third season of the *Original Series*. Paramount renewed *Enterprise* for a fourth season, but moved it to the Friday night death slot.[36] Like the *Original Series*, *Enterprise*'s ratings dropped during this time slot, and UPN canceled *Enterprise* at the end of its fourth season. *Enterprise* aired its final episode on May 13, 2005.[37] A fan group, "Save *Enterprise*", attempted to save the series and tried to raise $30 million to privately finance a fifth season of *Enterprise*.[38] Though the effort garnered considerable press, the fan drive failed to save the series. The cancellation of *Enterprise* ended an eighteen-year continuous production run of *Star Trek* programming on television. The poor box office performance in 2002 of the film *Nemesis* cast an uncertain light upon the future of the franchise. Paramount relieved Berman, the franchise producer, of control of *Star Trek*.
 
In 2007, Paramount hired a new creative team to reinvigorate the franchise on the big screen. Writers Roberto Orci and Alex Kurtzman and producer J. J. Abrams had the freedom to reinvent the feel of the franchise. The team created the franchise's eleventh film, *Star Trek*, releasing it in May 2009. The film featured a new cast portraying the crew of the original show. *Star Trek* was a prequel of the original series set in an alternate timeline, later named the *Kelvin* Timeline. This gave the film and sequels freedom from the need to conform to the franchise's canonical timeline and minimized the impact these films would have on CBS's portion of the franchise. The eleventh *Star Trek* film's marketing campaign targeted non-fans, stating in the film's advertisements that "this is not your father's *Star Trek*".[39]
 
The film earned considerable critical and financial success, grossing (in inflation-adjusted dollars) more box office sales than any previous *Star Trek* film.[40] The plaudits include the franchise's first Academy Award (for makeup). Two sequels were released. The first sequel, *Star Trek Into Darkness*, premiered in the spring of 2013.[c][41] While the film did not earn as much in the North American box office as its predecessor, internationally, in terms of box office receipts, *Into Darkness* is the most successful of the franchise.[42] The thirteenth film, *Star Trek Beyond*, was released on July 22, 2016.[43] The film had many pre-production problems and its script went through several rewrites. While receiving positive reviews, *Star Trek Beyond* disappointed in the box office.[44]
 
CBS turned down several proposals in the mid-2000s to restart the franchise on the small screen. Proposals included pitches from film director Bryan Singer, *Babylon 5* creator J. Michael Straczynski, and *Trek* actors Jonathan Frakes and William Shatner.[45][46][47] While CBS was not creating new *Star Trek* for network television, the ease of access to *Star Trek* content on new streaming services such as Netflix and Amazon Prime Video introduced a new set of fans to the franchise. CBS eventually sought to capitalize on this trend, and brought the franchise back to the small screen with the series *Star Trek: Discovery* to help launch and draw subscribers to its streaming service CBS All Access.[48] *Discovery's* first season premiered on September 24, 2017.[49] While *Discovery* is shown in the United States exclusively on Paramount+ (formerly CBS All Access), for its first three seasons, Netflix, in exchange for funding the production costs of the show, owned the international screening rights for the show.[50] This Netflix distribution and production deal ended right before the fourth season premiere of *Discovery* in November 2021.[51] *Discovery* has since been exclusive to Paramount Global owned platforms.
 a2f82b0cb4
 
