
 
For example, I was utterly convinced I did not like Gwyneth Paltrow. I still am. But what is the basis of my dislike? I could point to some films in which she starred that I do not enjoy, but was my lack of enjoyment definitively due to her performance, or was it due to other aspects of the film I did not like? And what to do with the films she was in that I liked very much, such as Hard Eight (dir. Paul Thomas Anderson, 1997) and The Talented Mr. Ripley (dir. Anthony Minghella, 1999)? Her performance was central to those films, and I could not deny that it added considerably to the films in question. Maybe, in fact, I liked Paltrow just fine as an actor, but found other things about her annoying?
 
**Download ✒ ✒ ✒ [https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SLg](https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SLg)**


 
In 1940, the Motion Picture Production Code of 1934 had effectively banned any frank discussion of most adult themes, including of course sex. Here Walter and Hildy have a frank and frankly ribald discussion of sex and marital discord without ever speaking any of it by name. And they do it at about 70 miles per hour. The arrival of stage actors like Grant and Russell and the writers capable of generating believable dialogue (no easy feat, as anyone who has tried to write it knows well) changed movie acting in fundamental ways. For the first time, the worlds of stage and film acting did converge in meaningful ways, even if profound differences (of the kind Benjamin describes above) continued to exist.
 
This is a scene written for film actors. It would, in truth, be hard to perform on stage. Without lavalier microphones attached to the actors, which did not exist in the 1940s, it would be impossible to deliver these lines as we hear them here for a live audience in a large theater. The dialog would simply be inaudible. Similarly, if the actors were to deliver the lines with the projection they might bring to a large theater, with the boom microphone right overhead, they would swamp the microphone and produce an utterly unusable recording. Thus, many of the skills actors brought with them from the stage were now useful in screen acting, but there were major adjustments actors had to make as they moved back and forth between them (which, in truth, few actors did during this period because they were placed under rigid contracts by their studios).
 
Before we turn to the next stage in the development of film acting, it is worth pausing over something many of you might notice when watching classic Hollywood films of the first generation of sound in film (1927-1949). People seem to talk strangely in those films, so much so that as I kid in the 1970s I often wondered how accents and speech patterns could have changed so much in just a few decades.
 
In both of these scenes, we hear none of the transatlantic accents familiar to the 1930s and 40s, no artificially articulated lines. Speech is natural: it sounds like we are listening in on incredibly private and painful conversations: in one, Terry (Marlon Brando) and Edie (Eva Marie Saint) have an awkward conversation in a playground by the promenade. In the other, Jim (James Dean) has just told his family about the death of a classmate during a game of chicken at a ravine, begging them to let him do the right thing.
 
And of course not all actors are hired for their acting. Sometimes it is a look, a visual feel that they bring to the film that is desired. Film is a visual medium, after all, and as we saw in our discussion of mise-en-scene, the movement of actors around the screen is as much a part of the visual look of a film as sets or costume design.
 
Close-Ups: An Introduction to Film Copyright 2023 by Jared Gardner & The Ohio State University is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License, except where otherwise noted.
 
TERRY GROSS, HOST: This is FRESH AIR. I'm Terry Gross. When you think of the acting technique known as the Method, you may think of "Raging Bull" and how Robert De Niro gained 60 pounds to play boxer Jake LaMotta in his retirement. You may think of actors who stay in character even while they're not performing. Or, as my guest Isaac Butler puts it, we tend to think of the Method as some goofy hocus pocus that actors, particularly the more self-important ones, get up to in order to do their job. Or as someone he met once put it, it's remembering the most traumatic thing that ever happened to you in order to make yourself cry. But the Method is much, much more, Butler says.In his new book "The Method: How The 20th Century Learned To Act," he describes the history of the Method, from the series of techniques created in the early 1900s by the Russian director Konstantin Stanislavski, through the American adaptation created by the Group Theatre and the Actors Studio, and the actors who brought those techniques to their work on stage and screen. It's also the story of how acting was influenced by war, social change and personal and aesthetic battles. Isaac Butler also co-wrote the book "The World Only Spins Forward: The Ascent Of Angels In America." He's also a theater director, teaches theater history and performance at The New School, co-hosts the Slate podcast "Working" about the creative process and is a cultural critic whose writing frequently appears in Slate.Isaac Butler, welcome to FRESH AIR. As someone who frequently interviews actors, I really enjoyed and appreciated reading your book. Let's start with an example that you think - an example of a performance that you think embodies the Method.ISAAC BUTLER: Thank you so much for having me, Terry. You know, when I think about the Method, I think of a performance like Al Pacino's in the first "Godfather" film in that, you know, a lot of that role is communicated non-verbally through you watching the character think. The character's often feeling emotions in a very intense way but not letting them out, but also allowing you to see that they are feeling them. You know, there's a certain amount of mystery to the character and idiosyncrasy. It feels like a real person in all of their complexity, not, like, a type or a stock role or anything like that. And, you know, Al Pacino just seems really alive in the moment and really present in that role at all times. So, to me, that's an example of the kind of performances that the Method helped usher to the fore over the course of the 20th century.GROSS: I forget who it was, but one of the, you know, Method directors or a teacher said, you know, let someone else take the part with a lot of dialogue. You take the part where you're just, like, thinking and reacting.BUTLER: Yeah, absolutely. That was Kazan. You know, when he was - when Elia Kazan briefly was trying to be a film actor, you know, he really learned from the other actors on set that part of what you do is you let everyone else say all the lines, that the camera is - can really read your mind, and it can really see your thoughts on your face. So part of the thing that you do is you just think, and the camera will see what you're thinking.GROSS: There's different approaches to the Method, but one of them really emphasizes digging into your own emotional history, your emotional memories, to use those to get into your character. And you were practicing that when you were in college and you had a role, and you had been a professional child actor. And you write in the introduction to your book that through this process of mining your own emotional memories, you retreated too far into your personal darkness. Can you describe how that happened, because I'd really like to understand how, like, psychologically upsetting it can be to take this approach to plumbing your own emotional depths?BUTLER: Yeah, absolutely. You know, it's funny. It was over two decades ago, but I still remember it really vividly. The play was "Talk Radio," which is by Eric Bogosian, and he wrote it for himself to play the lead character who's this kind of, like, shock jock, right? And over the course of the 90-minute play, the actor playing that part - you are chain-smoking and you're talking to people who are calling in to the radio. And then at the end of 90 minutes on stage, you have a nervous breakdown, you know, live on the air. That's the arc of the play. And this was a college production. It was student directors who, you know, of course, didn't really know what they were doing, and neither did any of the rest of us. And we probably had two or three weeks of rehearsal.And, you know, the character I was playing was older than me, had a lot more life experience, and they're having their nervous breakdown based on whatever is the matter with them. And I - the only way I knew how to find a connection to them was to go deep into the things that I thought were wrong with me and - you know, my own depression at being, you know, newly in college, my own loneliness and my own feelings of inadequacy and guilt and all sorts of other things. And so I really spent a lot of time thinking through those things and finding them and finding images or sensory ideas associated with them so I could kind of trigger them. And so I was doing that on stage and, at the same time, chain-smoking real cigarettes for 90 minutes. And so, you know, I would end every performance feeling completely wrung out emotionally and physically ill, simultaneously.And so what I would have to do at the end of the show is I would go back to my dorm room and I would just stare at a blank wall until I kind of - like, my stomach settled down and I felt my humanity return. And, you know, that show only performed three or four times. And I just remember at the end of it saying to myself, I am not tough enough to keep doing this again and again and again, for part after part. I can't do this. And that was the last moment in my life that I really considered pursuing a career as an actor. I very quickly switched to fo