Offer of one day free of the daily time and mileage charges on an intermediate (group C) through a full-size four-door (group E) car. Taxes, concession recovery fee, customer facility charges ($10/contract in CA) and fuel charges are extra. Optional items such as LDW and other surcharges may apply and are extra. Offer valid on minimum three-day rental. The renter is responsible for any additional time and mileage charges over one day. Coupon cannot be used for one-way rentals. One coupon per rental. Offer may not be used in conjunction with any other coupon, promotion or offer. Coupon valid at Budget locations in contiguous U.S. (excluding the New York Metro area). Holiday and other blackout periods may apply. If a rental begins during a blackout period, the whole rental is blacked out and doesn't qualify for use of coupon. An advance reservation is required. Customer must provide profile number associated with the coupon. Reservation must be cancelled by rental date, or coupon will be used. Offer subject to vehicle availability at time of reservation and may not be availabe on some rates at some times. For reservations made on Budget.com, free day will be applied at the time of rental. Budget reserves the right to alter the terms and conditions and use of coupons. Budget reserves the right to refuse or expire coupons at any time without prior notification. Coupons cannot be applied to completed rentals. Renter must meet Budget age, driver and credit requirements. Minimum age may vary by location. An additional daily surcharge may apply for renters under 25 years old. **Rental must begin on or before 12/31/23.**
 
The National Highway Transportation Safety Administration from time to time rates vehicles for safety standards.  Based on our last review, this vehicle was rated as a 5-star vehicle.  Please note these ratings are subject to change and reflect our last review.
 
**DOWNLOAD →→→ [https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SEp](https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SEp)**


 
Offer of one day free of the daily time and mileage charges on an intermediate (group C) through a full-size four-door (group E) car. Taxes, concession recovery fee, customer facility charges ($10/contract in CA) and fuel charges are extra. Optional items such as LDW and other surcharges may apply and are extra. Offer valid on minimum three-day rental. The renter is responsible for any additional time and mileage charges over one day. Coupon cannot be used for one-way rentals. One coupon per rental. Offer may not be used in conjunction with any other coupon, promotion or offer. Coupon valid at Budget locations in contiguous U.S. (excluding the New York Metro area). Holiday and other blackout periods may apply. If a rental begins during a blackout period, the whole rental is blacked out and doesn't qualify for use of coupon. An advance reservation is required. Customer must provide profile number associated with the coupon. Reservation must be cancelled by rental date, or coupon will be used. Offer subject to vehicle availability at time of reservation and may not be availabe on some rates at some times. For reservations made on Budget.com, free day will be applied at the time of rental. Budget reserves the right to alter the terms and conditions and use of coupons. Budget reserves the right to refuse or expire coupons at any time without prior notification. Coupons cannot be applied to completed rentals. Renter must meet Budget age, driver and credit requirements. Minimum age may vary by location. An additional daily surcharge may apply for renters under 25 years old. **Rental must begin on or before 12/31/24.**
 
Providing your age allows us to give you a more accurate rental estimates. Restrictions and additional surcharges may apply for underage driver's. Please review rental terms and conditions or call us at 800-472-3325 for details.  
**Note:** When using your Customer ID this information may not be changed. If required, please call at 800-314-3932.
 
Required to present credentials to confirm your country of residence when picking rental. If the credentials are of a different country, the reservation will still be honored but the confirmed rate may change. To modify, please cancel and create a new reservation.
**Note:** When using your Customer ID this information may not be changed. If required, please call at 800-314-3932.
 
We are sorry, Avis Preferred Points cannot be combined with additional offers and discounts. Only one offer can be applied per reservation. If you wish to use your Preferred Points for this reservation, please remove coupon code.
 
*Vehicle make, model, trim, features and color are not guaranteed and are subject to location and availability. Vehicles listed for this car group are subject to change at anytime. Vehicle features are subject to change based on the vehicle model-year.*
 
Is the Ford Transit the right option for you? Besides the spacious interior, there are many reasons why a Ford Transit 12-passenger van is the perfect choice for you and your crew. Discover even more benefits of the Ford Transit 12-passenger van below.

 
Offer of one day free of the daily time and mileage charges on an intermediate (group C) through a full-size four-door (group E) car. Taxes, concession recovery fee, customer facility charges ($10/contract in CA) and fuel charges are extra. Optional items such as LDW and other surcharges may apply and are extra. Offer valid on minimum three-day rental. The renter is responsible for any additional time and mileage charges over one day. Coupon cannot be used for one-way rentals. One coupon per rental. Offer may not be used in conjunction with any other coupon, promotion or offer. Coupon valid at Avis locations in the contiguous U.S. (excluding the New York Metro area). Holiday and other blackout periods may apply. If a rental begins during a blackout period, the whole rental is blacked out and does not qualify for use of coupon. An advanced reservation is required. Customer must provide profile number associated with the coupon. Reservation must be cancelled by rental date, or coupon will be used. Offer subject to vehicle availability at time of reservation and may not be available on some rates at some times. For reservations made on Avis.com, free day will be applied at time of rental. Avis reserves the right to alter the terms and conditions and use of coupons. Avis reserves the right to refuse or expire coupons at any time without prior notification. Coupons cannot be applied to completed rentals. Renter must meet Avis age, driver and credit requirements. Minimum age may vary by location. An additional daily surcharge may apply for renters under 25 years old. **Rental must begin on or before 12/31/24.**

 a2f82b0cb4
 
