Come and revel in one of our 376 guestrooms rooms, From the charming deluxe room and the exhilarating Family superior Jacuzzi to one of the best selling family rooms, it is Kids den room. we prefer keeping it as a home away from home
 
**DOWNLOAD ✔✔✔ [https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SFY](https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SFY)**


 
As part of the luxurious life at this hotel, we offer **exceptional services** in a warm, **welcoming atmosphere**, featuring unrivaled views due to our unique location on the Red Sea, a variety of dining options, and a waterpark with a real endless fun for the entire family.
 
Enjoy one of the best aqua park hotels in Sharm El Sheikh with our vibrant aqua park in Sharm El Sheikh, trying twisting body slide, speed slides, tube, and multi-lane slides, after that pack your six senses and try one of the excellent dishes we offer at our several restaurants complete with a refreshing drink, it is **the best way here to spend your day**in Sharm El Sheikh holidays.
 
We offer **exceptional services** in a warm, **welcoming atmosphere**, featuring unrivaled views due to our unique location on the Red Sea, a variety of dining options, a waterpark with a real endless fun for the entire family.
 
At the Grand Waterworld Makadi (formerly known as Sunwing Waterworld Makadi), the emphasis is on fun-filled family holidays during the peak season, while offering a great off-peak location for adults who enjoy the variety of beachside bars, restaurants and premium quality rooms that only a five star hotel can offer. Built around a vast waterpark, huge waterslides, Aqua Loop, wave pool, Flow Rider and lazy river, it is the ideal location for water babies of all ages.
 
Rixos Water World Aktau is the first and only five-star luxury resort hotel with "All Inclusive All Exclusive" concept in Kazakhstan. The luxurious hotel is located on the picturesque coast of the Caspian Sea with the marvelous sandy beach and crystal clear azure water. Unique family resort is located 20 km km from Aktau City and immerses guests in an atmosphere of unforgettable beach holidays. A pure luxury haven with quintessentially essence of Turkish hospitality and Kazakh culture.
 
Rixos Water World Aktau boasts three restaurants and seven bars, taking you on a global, gourmet adventure. From authentic Turkish cuisine to international favourites, you can indulge in exceptional quality food and drink.
 
Holidays are for living the dream and making memories, and that is certainly true for our youngest guests. Rixy Kids Club is a children's wonderland, providing them with days filled with activities and magical evenings.

"Rixos Water World Aktau is a great place to relax with friends and family. Taking full advantage of our incredible surroundings, activities for everyone are available on land and sea. For those seeking professional coaching, the Exclusive Sports academy offers tuition in a variety of sports including football and tennis on the seven international standard tennis courts. Fitness fanatics can continue their daily workouts with a wide range of cardio and fitness classes. For those who prefer mindful activities, pilates, Tai-Chi, and yoga are popular classes. Anyone looking to enjoy activities purely for fun can enjoy beach volleyball, trampolining, cycling and nordic walking to name but a few. There are four swimming pools with a huge infinity pool overlooking the sea. For a thrilling family adventure, the water park is waiting for you! Here there is a wave pool and slides galore for all ages with an aqua park, especially for children."
 
"The indulgent Anjana Spa at Rixos Water World Aktau offers relaxation and rejuvenation through traditional Turkish, Eastern and Western treatments and rituals. At the heart of the spa is the hammam. Throughout history, the hammam was a haven for the sultans. A mystical place for wellbeing, the Rixos hammam opens this treasure for all guests to enjoy its therapeutic benefits. The spa also offers a wide selection of sublime treatments and therapies, including skincare and massages. The spa has a beautiful indoor pool, a snow room, a fitness centre, a steam room and a sauna. A relaxation area and Vitamin Bar welcomes guests pre and post their visit to the spa."
 
Rixos Water World Aktau is the perfect place to relax with friends and family. The nightly entertainment is a dazzling array of shows. Dynamic, pulsating beats from DJ's and bands are on offer each night, 365 days a year along with theme parties and festivals celebrating the very best music. Our world-class entertainment programmes are the hallmark of a Rixos resort.
 
Rixos Water World Aktau is the ultimate destination for luxurious, all-inclusive corporate meetings, events, incentives, and conventions. From exclusive board meetings, product launches and corporate celebrations to company retreats, team building days and award ceremonies, our exceptional facilities and unparalleled service ensure Rixos Water World Aktau is one of the most prestigious event venues on the Caspian Sea. Our four conference rooms and grand ballroom provide state-of-the-art audio-visual equipment and high-speed internet access. Our expert team of event organisers are on hand to support all meetings and events, while our culinary team provide everything from morning coffee to a sumptuous banquet.
 
Celebrate the most memorable day of your life at Rixos Water World Aktau. Enjoy a fairy tale wedding from barefoot ceremonies on our pristine beach to the exclusive opulence of the resort's ballroom, tailored uniquely for you. The combination of unmatched service standards, exquisite event menus and attention to detail from our banquet specialists will make your wedding day the happiest day of your life.
 
Overall, everything is good, but the housekeeping service is very poor. I waited for three days, and when they finally arrived, they informed me that their working hours were nearly over. They said if we wanted them to clean our room, we needed to leave immediately.
 
We were pleasantly surprised at how well appointed the hotel is. The entire staff in the hotel are very welcoming, helpful and attentive to any requests we had. The added bonus are the Theme Parks. The rooms are nice and comfortable and had amazing views of the Caspian sea. Overall, it was a really good experience and lots of memories to take back...!
 
The hotel has been working in the middle of season-switch - therefore some of the facilities have not been working properly (the most critical was that the air-conditioning system didn't work so it was option either to sleep in a heat or to sleep with open windows). However generally the stay was good, staff was extremely friendly and helpful and I enjoyed the hotel
 
Really beautifully organized place. Very green garden, warm and well designed swimming pool. Friendly check in staff who was already expecting us. The water park is a plus. But upon arrival security guards behaving like police. Keeping gates closed and taking time to open it. Asking in a rude way the passport. They are not police and should not welcome guests this way. Very unpleasant. Indeed we were arriving in a dirty car from 2 days of camping in Mangystau but it is not the way to greet customers. Also the food is really not good. I would recommend to stop the all inclusive and be on a pay as per your consumption with better products. Rooms were good but soundproofing could be improved (same problem in Rixos Turkestan). To be clear, in terms of food and rooms quality, of all Rixos tested in Kazakhstan only the Borovoe one is up to the Rixos name.
 
Atkin's Architecture Group recently won the first prize award for an international design competition with this stunning entry. Set in a spectacular water filled quarry in Songjiang, China, the 400 bed resort hotel is uniquely constructed within the natural elements of the quarry. Underwater public areas and guest rooms add to the uniqueness, but the resort also boasts cafes, restaurants and sporting facilities.\nThe lowest level runs with the aquatic theme by housing a luxurious swimming pool and an extreme sports centerf or activities such as rock climbing and bungee jumping which will be cantilevered over the quarry and accessed by speciallifts from the water. With a stunning visual presentation as shown here, it's no wonder this project took home the first prize. This is a fine example of an ultra modern facility co-existing amongst its natural environment.\nby Andy G\n
 
Eric Alexander is marketing manager for the lodging & hospitality industry with the Institutional, North America group at Nalco Water, an Ecolab Company. Alexander can be reached at [email protected].
 
However, supply is only half of the issue. Water scarcity is a combination of two factors: quantity and quality. A UN assessment of water bodies in 89 countries revealed only 60% to have good ambient water quality. In most countries, no water quality data is available at all, which means more than three billion people are at risk because the health of their freshwater resources is simply unknown.
 
While water in many municipalities is cheap today, it likely will not stay that way. Energy is expensive already. Since it takes a lot of energy to use water, which must be pumped, heated, cooled and treated, using less water means lower energy bills. Using less energy means lower greenhouse gas emissions, too.
 
Because hotels use water in so many ways, operators have a variety of options to try to reduce water, energy and other operational costs. Examples include laundry, kitchen, pool and cooling towers. Among them, one of the greatest opportunities often lies with water treatment of cooling towers.
 
A 2015 industry survey of utility costs confirmed electricity, gas and fuel to be the largest expense category, averaging 71% of total hotel utility spend. This was followed by water at 24% and other utility cos