
 
The **history of fluid mechanics** is a fundamental strand of the history of physics and engineering. The study of the movement of fluids (liquids and gases) and the forces that act upon them dates back to pre-history. The field has undergone a continuous evolution, driven by human dependence on water, meteorological conditions and internal biological processes.
 
The success of early civilizations, can be attributed to developments in the understanding of water dynamics, allowing for the construction of canals and aqueducts for water distribution and farm irrigation, as well as maritime transport. Due to its conceptual complexity, most discoveries in this field relied almost entirely on experiments, at least until the development of advanced understanding of differential equations and computational methods. Significant theoretical contributions were made by notables figures like Archimedes, Johann Bernoulli and his son Daniel Bernoulli, Leonhard Euler, Claude-Louis Navier and Stokes, who developed the fundamental equations to describe fluid mechanics. Advancements in experimentation and computational methods have further propelled the field, leading to practical applications in more specialized industries ranging from aerospace to environmental engineering. Fluid mechanics has also been important for the study astronomical bodies and the dynamics of galaxies.
 
**DOWNLOAD ☆☆☆☆☆ [https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SHa](https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SHa)**


 
A pragmatic, if not scientific, knowledge of fluid flow was exhibited by ancient civilizations, such as in the design of arrows, spears, boats, and particularly hydraulic engineering projects for flood protection, irrigation, drainage, and water supply.[1] The earliest human civilizations began near the shores of rivers, and consequently coincided with the dawn of hydrology, hydraulics, and hydraulic engineering.
 
Observations of specific gravity and buoyancy were recorded by ancient Chinese philosophers. In the 4th century BCE Mencius describes the weight of the gold is equivalent to the feathers. In 3rd century CE, Cao Chong describes the story of weighing the elephant by observing displacement of the boats loaded with different weights.[2]
 
In the Greek school at Alexandria, which flourished under the auspices of the Ptolemies, attempts were made at the construction of hydraulic machinery, and about 120 BC the fountain of compression, the siphon, and the forcing-pump were invented by Ctesibius and Hero. The siphon is a simple instrument; but the forcing-pump is a complicated invention, which could scarcely have been expected in the infancy of hydraulics. It was probably suggested to Ctesibius by the Egyptian wheel or Noria, which was common at that time, and which was a kind of chain pump, consisting of a number of earthen pots carried round by a wheel. In some of these machines the pots have a valve in the bottom which enables them to descend without much resistance, and diminishes greatly the load upon the wheel; and, if we suppose that this valve was introduced so early as the time of Ctesibius, it is not difficult to perceive how such a machine might have led to the invention of the forcing-pump.[4]
 
Notwithstanding these inventions of the Alexandrian school, its attention does not seem to have been directed to the motion of fluids; and the first attempt to investigate this subject was made by Sextus Julius Frontinus, inspector of the public fountains at Rome in the reigns of Nerva and Trajan. In his work *De aquaeductibus urbis Romae commentarius*, he considers the methods which were at that time employed for ascertaining the quantity of water discharged from ajutages (tubes), and the mode of distributing the waters of an aqueduct or a fountain. He remarked that the flow of water from an orifice depends not only on the magnitude of the orifice itself, but also on the height of the water in the reservoir; and that a pipe employed to carry off a portion of water from an aqueduct should, as circumstances required, have a position more or less inclined to the original direction of the current. But as he was unacquainted with the law of the velocities of running water as depending upon the depth of the orifice, the want of precision which appears in his results is not surprising.[4]
 
Biruni introduced the method of checking tests during experiments and measured the weights of various liquids. He also recorded the differences in weight between freshwater and saline water, and between hot water and cold water.[*citation needed*] During his experiments on fluid mechanics, Biruni invented the conical measure,[6] in order to find the ratio between the weight of a substance in air and the weight of water displaced.[*citation needed*]

In 1206, Al-Jazari's *Book of Knowledge of Ingenious Mechanical Devices* described many hydraulic machines. Of particular importance were his water-raising pumps. The first known use of a crankshaft in a chain pump was in one of al-Jazari's saqiya machines. The concept of minimizing intermittent working is also first implied in one of al-Jazari's saqiya chain pumps, which was for the purpose of maximising the efficiency of the saqiya chain pump.[14] Al-Jazari also invented a twin-cylinder reciprocating piston suction pump, which included the first suction pipes, suction pumping, double-action pumping, and made early uses of valves and a crankshaft-connecting rod mechanism. This pump is remarkable for three reasons: the first known use of a true suction pipe (which sucks fluids into a partial vacuum) in a pump, the first application of the double-acting principle, and the conversion of rotary to reciprocating motion, via the crankshaft-connecting rod mechanism.[15][16][17]
 
During the Renaissance, Leonardo da Vinci was well known for his experimental skills. His notes provide precise depictions of various phenomena, including vessels, jets, hydraulic jumps, eddy formation, tides, as well as designs for both low drag (streamlined) and high drag (parachute) configurations. Da Vinci is also credited for formulating the conservation of mass in one-dimensional steady flow.[18]
 
Benedetto Castelli, and Evangelista Torricelli, two of the disciples of Galileo, applied the discoveries of their master to the science of hydrodynamics. In 1628 Castelli published a small work, *Della misura dell' acque correnti*, in which he satisfactorily explained several phenomena in the motion of fluids in rivers and canals; but he committed a great paralogism in supposing the velocity of the water proportional to the depth of the orifice below the surface of the vessel. Torricelli, observing that in a jet where the water rushed through a small ajutage it rose to nearly the same height with the reservoir from which it was supplied, imagined that it ought to move with the same velocity as if it had fallen through that height by the force of gravity, and hence he deduced the proposition that the velocities of liquids are as the square root of the head, apart from the resistance of the air and the friction of the orifice. This theorem was published in 1643, at the end of his treatise *De motu gravium projectorum*, and it was confirmed by the experiments of Raffaello Magiotti on the quantities of water discharged from different ajutages under different pressures (1648).[4]
 
The effects of friction and viscosity in diminishing the velocity of running water were noticed in the *Principia* of Sir Isaac Newton, who threw much light upon several branches of hydromechanics. At a time when the Cartesian system of vortices universally prevailed, he found it necessary to investigate that hypothesis, and in the course of his investigations he showed that the velocity of any stratum of the vortex is an arithmetical mean between the velocities of the strata which enclose it; and from this it evidently follows that the velocity of a filament of water moving in a pipe is an arithmetical mean between the velocities of the filaments which surround it. Taking advantage of these results, French engineer Henri Pitot afterwards showed that the retardations arising from friction are inversely as the diameters of the pipes in which the fluid moves.[4]
 
When the results of this theory were compared with the quantity of water actually discharged, Newton concluded that the velocity with which the water issued from the orifice was equal to that which a falling body would receive by descending through half the height of water in the reservoir. This conclusion, however, is absolutely irreconcilable with the known fact that jets of water rise nearly to the same height as their reservoirs, and Newton seems to have been aware of this objection. Accordingly, in the second edition of his *Principia*, which appeared in 1713, he reconsidered his theory. He had discovered a contraction in the vein of fluid (*vena contracta*) which issued from the orifice, and found that, at the distance of about a diameter of the aperture, the section of the vein was contracted in the subduplicate ratio of two to one. He regarded, therefore, the section of the contracted vein as the true orifice from which the discharge of water ought to be deduced, and the velocity of the effluent water as due to the whole height of water in the reservoir; and by this means his theory became more conformable to the results of experience, though still open to serious objections.[4]
 
In 1738 Daniel Bernoulli published his *Hydrodynamica seu de viribus et motibus fluidorum commentarii*. His theory of the motion of fluids, the germ of which was first published in his memoir entitled *Theoria nova de motu aquarum per canales quocunque fluentes*, communicated to the academy of St Petersburg as early as 1726, was founded on two suppositions, which appeared to him conformable to experience. He supposed that the surface of the fluid, contained in a vessel which is emptying itself by a