
 
IMF Agent Ethan Hunt intercepts a shipment of nerve gas being moved from Minsk by The Syndicate, a secret consortium of rogue field operatives from various intelligence agencies that he has been tracking. At an IMF station in London, The Syndicate compromises the debrief. While being gassed unconscious, he is forced to watch a blonde man wearing glasses kill the station operative.
 
**Download ⚹⚹⚹ [https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SAX](https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SAX)**


 
In Washington D.C., CIA Director Alan Hunley convinces a Senate committee to decommission and assimilate the IMF into the CIA due to their destructive events in Russia.[a] Agents Benji Dunn and William Brandt are forced to work for the CIA under strict scrutiny. Ethan awakes and is tortured by ex-KGB agent Janik "Bone Doctor" Vinter. He escapes with the help of Ilsa Faust, an undercover British MI6 agent. Six months later, Hunt, a wanted fugitive, covertly passes information about The Syndicate to Benji, and arranges his tickets to *Turandot*, performed at the Vienna State Opera. Upon Benji's arrival in Vienna, Ethan asks him to help track down the blonde man who killed the IMF station operative in London.
 
At the opera, they encounter Faust and several other Syndicate agents there to assassinate the Chancellor of Austria. Ethan prevents the hit and escapes with Faust, only to witness the Chancellor being killed by a car bomb. Chased by Syndicate agents, Ethan and Benji are forced to release Faust to protect her cover. Hunley blames both Ethan and Benji for the assassination and orders the Special Activities Division to capture or kill them both. Brandt convinces former IMF agent Luther Stickell to help him locate both Ethan and Benji before the CIA does.
 
Ethan and Benji find Faust in Casablanca, where she identifies Ethan's suspect as the rogue MI6 agent, Solomon Lane, who is the leader of The Syndicate. The three then infiltrate an underwater vault beneath a power plant to retrieve a digital ledger stolen from Lane, that purportedly contains the names of all Syndicate operatives. However, Faust flees with the data to London and meets her handler, MI6 Chief Atlee, who discreetly deletes the data and forces her to continue her undercover assignment.

Later, Benji and Ethan are found by Stickell and Brandt. Stickell discovers that the data, which was copied by Benji earlier before finding Faust, is actually an encrypted British government virtual red box that requires the biometrics of the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom to unlock it. They all travel to London, but Lane's men abduct Benji during the team's meeting with Faust at King's Cross railway station and use him to blackmail Ethan into decrypting and delivering the data to him. Despite Brandt's protests, Ethan accepts the mission. Brandt secretly reveals their location to Hunley.
 
In Oxford, Hunley, Brandt, and Hunt (disguised as Atlee) meet the Prime Minister, who confirms that The Syndicate was a secret project proposed by Atlee to recruit former intelligence agents and perform missions without oversight and zero accountability, which the Prime Minister unequivocally rejected. Ethan tranquilizes the Prime Minister; he and Brandt secure the Prime Minister's biometrics, allowing Stickell to decrypt the file. When the real Atlee arrives, Ethan and Brandt force him to admit that he surreptitiously started The Syndicate without the Prime Minister's knowledge before Lane hijacked it, after which, Atlee tried to frame Faust.
 
Decrypting the file, the red box contains access to 2.4 billion, in numerous accounts. Ethan destroys the data after deducing that Lane plans to fund The Syndicate with the money. Arriving at the meeting place arranged by Lane, Ethan finds Benji, who is strapped to a bomb and wearing a headset and contact lens camera to serve as Lane's proxy, alongside Faust. Ethan tells Lane that he has memorized the data and offers himself in exchange for Benji's safety. Benji escapes after Lane remotely disarms the bomb, while Ethan and Faust are chased by Vinter's men through the Tower of London. Faust kills Vinter while Lane, who pursues Ethan, is lured into a bulletproof glass cell and gassed unconscious. Having witnessed an IMF success firsthand, Hunley returns to the Senate committee and claims that their previous meeting served as a pretext to help Ethan expose and shut down The Syndicate, convincing the committee to restore the IMF. After the meeting, Brandt welcomes Hunley as the new IMF Secretary.
 
Additional cast includes Robert Maaser as Richter, a KSA agent turned Syndicate operative assigned to kill Ilsa if she fails to kill the Chancellor; Wolfgang Stegemann as Kagan, a Mossad agent turned Syndicate operative who fights Hunt at the Vienna State Opera; Alec Utgoff as the crewman of the A400 cargo plane carrying nerve gas; Mateo Rufino and Fernando Abadie as low-level Chechen separatists piloting the A400; and Rupert Wickham as the Austrian chancellor.
 
Paramount Pictures announced in August 2013 that Christopher McQuarrie would direct the fifth *Mission: Impossible* film, from a script by Drew Pearce, with Tom Cruise reprising his role as Ethan Hunt. TC Productions and Bad Robot would produce, and Skydance Productions, who served as co-financers and executive producers of the latest installment, will work closely with the team in the development and production process."[4] On November 14, 2013, Paramount announced a release date of December 25, 2015.[5] The same month, Simon Pegg confirmed he would reprise his role as Benji.[6] In May 2014, Will Staples replaced Pearce as screenwriter.[7] Also that month, Jeremy Renner confirmed he was returning in the role of William Brandt,[8] and Cruise said the film would shoot in London,[9] with a later report saying it would first shoot in Vienna in August.[10] At some point, McQuarrie replaced Staples as screenwriter; the final credits list McQuarrie as screenwriter, with story by Pearce.
 
Earlier script drafts of the film included an opening sequence following an IMF team in the 1960s.[11] The character of Dan Briggs from the first season of the original TV series was also considered to return, but for unknown reasons his role was given to new character Ilsa Faust instead.[12]
 
After more than a month of shooting in both Austria and Morocco, filming moved to London on September 28.[*citation needed*] Filming of an action scene featuring Ethan Hunt climbing and hanging on the outside of a flying Airbus A400M Atlas took place at RAF Wittering near Stamford. Tom Cruise performed the sequence, at times suspended on the aircraft over 5,000 feet (1,500 m) in the air, without the use of a stunt double.[31] To pull off this particular dangerous stunt, the production team were given a limited period of only 48 hours. The plane took off and landed 8 times before they had the perfect shot.[32] On November 9, filming began on Southampton Water, and Fawley Power Station.[33] Tom Cruise trained under diving specialist Kirk Krack to be able to hold his breath for three minutes to perform an underwater sequence which was filmed in a single long take without any edits (though the scene in the movie was cut with several breaks, giving the impression for the scene having several takes).[34] However, stunt coordinator Wade Eastwood claims that Cruise held his breath for just over six minutes.[32]
 
Some footage also took place at Leavesden Studios in the UK,[35] with the crew spending a month filming footage in Leavesden's underwater tank.[36] The tank was approximately forty feet in length, and circular tracks were constructed around its drive bays in order to attach the camera and dolly. Other footage shot at Leavesden included additional insert shots, shots of Cruise running through grass which were filmed using a Technocrane, and several crowd shots.[37] On February 20, 2015, *The Hollywood Reporter* said filming was halted to give McQuarrie, Cruise, and an unknown third person time to rework the film's ending.[38] Filming ended on March 12, 2015.[39]
 
Paramount had originally scheduled the film for a December 25, 2015, release. On January 26, 2015, Paramount advanced the release date to July 31, 2015.[44][45] The main reason cited by *The Hollywood Reporter* was to avoid competition with two other 2015 films, *Star Wars: The Force Awakens* and *Spectre*.[46] In the United States and Canada, it was released in the Dolby Vision format in Dolby Cinema, the first-ever time for Paramount.[47] On February 13, 2015, Paramount and IMAX Corporation announced that they would digitally remaster the film into the IMAX format and release it in IMAX theaters worldwide on the scheduled date.[48] The film was completed at 2:00AM on July 18, 2015, less than two weeks before its release date.[*citation needed*] It was officially released in North America on July 31, 2015. Lotte released the film in South Korea on July 30, 2015.[49] It was released in China on September 8, 2015.[50]
 
In August 2015, Fox Networks acquired the US cable broadcast rights, for broadcast after its theatrical release. The film is available for FX Networks and its suite of networks: FX, FXX, FXM, as well as the video-on-demand platform FXNow.[51]
 
A comic book was released in conjunction with the film's DVD/Blu-ray release. It follows Hunt going rogue during the events of the film. The comic is written by the film's writer and director Christopher McQuarrie and illustrated by *Lazarus* artist Owen Freeman.[53]
 
*Mission Impossible: Rogue Nation* was released on Blu-ray and DVD on December 15, 2015, in the United States.[54] A 4K Ultra HD Blu-ray was released on June 26, 2018, along with the first four films.[55]
 
Elsewhere, the film opened in 40 international markets including 135 IMAX theaters on July 31, 2015, in big markets such the United Kingdom, Mexico, and Australia.[61] It grossed $64.5 million in its openi