
 
This manual, entitled Cohort Component Procedures is one of a series of protocols and manuals of operation for the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) Study. The complexity of the ARIC Study requires that a sizeable number of procedures be described, thus this rather extensive list of materials has been organized into the set of manuals listed below. Manual 1 provides the background, organization, and general objectives of the ARIC Study. Manuals 2 and 3 describe the operation of the Cohort and Surveillance Components of the study. Detailed Manuals of Operation for specific procedures, including those of reading centers and central laboratories, make up Manuals 4 through 11 and 13 through 15. Manual 12 on Quality Assurance contains a general description of the study's approach to quality assurance as well as the details for quality control for the different study procedures.
 
The ARIC cohort consists of 15,800 men and women ages 45-64 who were selected at random and recruited from four U.S. study communities between 1986 and 1990, the period referred to as Visit 1. The cohort members participated in an extensive set of examinations and interviews related to their cardiovascular health, and agreed to short annual telephone interviews and repeat examinations every three years for the duration of the study. The routine annual contact consists of a telephone interview to maintain correct addresses and to as certain vital status and interim medical events; every three years on the date of the first field center examination (their anniversary date) the participant is also scheduled for a field center visit at the conclusion o f the annual follow-up (AFU) interview.
 
**Download File ⇒⇒⇒ [https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SDM](https://oraselic.blogspot.com/?d=2A0SDM)**


 
Chapter one of this manual describes the procedures for scheduling and conducting the AFU interview (Sections 1.2 - 1.3) and for scheduling the participants third field center examination (Sections 1.4 - 1.6). Chapter two provides the rationale and description of the procedures or the interviews, the training and certification required to perform/administer the item, the quality assurance procedures, and the data collection mechanisms associated with each procedure or interview conducted during the third field center examination (Visit 3). Chapter 3 (procedures for event classification) outlines the procedures and criteria for ascertaining whether participant reported medical events are related to their cardiovascular health.
 
Participants who completed at least part of the baseline examination (Visit 1) are contacted annually and, if capable, are invited to subsequent ARIC examinations. Individuals excluded from annual follow-up and subsequent examinations at the beginning of the study are only those enumerated residents who completed the home interview, but did not sign the informed consent form at the first field center examination (Visit 1).
 
Unless requested otherwise by the participant, or a participant is lost-to-follow-up, all surviving ARIC cohort members are contacted annually, regardless of whether they continue to participate in field center examinations. This includes participants who have moved away from the community in which they were recruited. Telephone AFU interviews can be conducted anywhere in the continental U.S. Addresses and telephone numbers of cohort members with multiple residences are kept on file to contact participants on their target anniversary date. Those who have moved are also invited to return for examinations, either at their recruitment or a sister field center. Reimbursement for long distance travel, however, is unavailable. See Section 1.6.5 for procedures for the scheduling of Visit 3 examinations of ARIC participants who have moved away from the community in which they were recruited and are willing to be examined in one of the other field centers.
 
Study participants are recontacted annually on their initial examination date (the anniversary date) at approximately the same time each year. The target date for the AFU interview is the date of the baseline visit. Contact years are numbered sequentially, starting with the year of the baseline examination, i.e., Contact Year 01 was assigned to all participants at Visit 1, regardless of the year in which they completed their baseline exam. Because recruitment was done over a three year period, participants could be in any one of three ARIC contact years during the calendar year in which annual contact interviews are conducted. For example, in 1993, interviewers contact participants in Contact Years 05, 06, and 07. Regardless of the contact year, the optimal time for placing the initial call each year for annual contact is generally not more than three weeks before the target (anniversary) date. A one year window, up to 6 months before and 6 months after the target date, is the maximum allowed for each annual contact.
 
The contact year to which a participant death is assigned is determined by two factors: the date of death and whether or not the participant had already been interviewed during the contact year in which the death occurred. For example, if the death is determined during or prior to the regularly scheduled AFU interview, the death is assigned to the contact year in which the AFU form was administered. If, however, a participant is interviewed during Contact Year 07, dies a short time thereafter, and the family notifies the field center of the death, the death is assigned to the next contact year, i.e., Contact Year 08.
 
Annual follow-up of cohort members is used to (1) maintain contact and correct address information on cohort participants (2) update tracing information on two contact persons, (3) ascertain the participant's vital status, and (4) document interim medical events/hospitalizations, life events and functional status between the three-year comprehensive examinations.
 
There are five primary components to annual follow-up: (1) the generation of scheduling material by the ARIC Coordinating Center; (2) the scheduling of the AFU interview by field center staff; (3) the administration of the AFU interview; (4) the scheduling of a field center examination every third contact year; and (5) the ascertainment of medical information relating to hospitalizations for cardiovascular disease. These steps are summarized in Figure 1 and described in the following sections.

The ARIC Coordinating Center begins the AFU procedures by generating and distributing to field centers several times a year AFU materials for use in scheduling and conducting the AFU interview. These materials include a (1) 1st of participants with anniversary dates for a minimum of three months; (2) the participant tracing information sheet (Appendix 1.1); and (3) the verification of tracing information (UPD) form (Appendices 1.2 and 1.3). The list of participants includes the participant name, participant ID, date of Visit 1, and date of Visit 2 (optional), sorted in the order requested by the field center. The Participant Tracing Information Sheet includes the participant's name, address, telephone number(s); sex, race, date of birth, state of birth, social security number, driver's license state and number; employer's name and address; date of Visit 1, date of Visit 2; and the names, addresses and telephone numbers of two contact persons and the personal physician. The Verification of Tracing Information (UPD) form is available in long and abbreviated versions (depending on whether it is administered with the routine AFU interview or the AFU/Visit 3 scheduling interview) and lists the current data on file for the names and addresses of the participant and his/her two contact persons.
 
The scheduling of AFU interviews at the field centers is done year round and involves identifying the participants who require scheduling, determining the type of contact needed (routine AFU or AFU/Visit 3 scheduling), establishing contact, administering the AFU form, scheduling Visit 3, and ascertaining the relevance of participant-reported medical events to ARIC data needs. The procedures for scheduling Visit 3 and event classification are described in sections 1.6 and Chapter 3, respectively.
 
Using the list of participant anniversary dates, field centers identify participants for annual contact. The routine use of letters (Appendix 1.4) prior to the AFU interview reminding participants that they will be contacted by telephone by a staff member from the ARIC field center for their annual interview is optional. All participants, however, who cannot be contacted by phone are sent this letter on ARIC study stationery as a reminder and "forwarding and address correction requested" is stamped on the envelope.
 
Participants who do not have phones, have trouble communicating by telephone, or have special needs are not contacted by telephone but are visited in-person. If these participants can be identified in advance, the letter indicates that an interviewer will visit the home, and annual follow-up and recruitment takes place there.
 
Participants found to have moved or who are otherwise lost to follow-up are traced using the tracing information obtained at Visit 1 and during subsequent annual follow-up contacts and other local sources of information, such as the telephone directory, city directory, etc. By using the Participant Tracing Information Sheet, field center staff can call or write to the individuals, employers, or physicians the participants identified during previous interviews. By using social security numbers, periodic searches of the National Death Index are done. Every attempt is made to schedule and complete an AFU interview for each cohort participant.
 
AFU interviewers telephone study participants at their homes at optimal times (i.e., late afternoons, evenings, or weekends) to conduct the annual follow-up interview (and durin